             insects
Article
Wing Planform Effect on the Aerodynamics of Insect Wings
Hao Li 1 and Mostafa R. A. Nabawy 1,2, *

                                          1   Department of Mechanical, Aerospace and Civil Engineering, The University of Manchester,
                                              Manchester M1 3BB, UK; hao.li@manchester.ac.uk
                                          2   Aerospace Engineering Department, Faculty of Engineering, Cairo University, Giza 12613, Egypt
                                          *   Correspondence: mostafa.ahmednabawy@manchester.ac.uk


                                          Simple Summary: This study aims to provide an improved understanding of the effect of wing
                                          planform shape on the aerodynamic performance of insect flapping wings. We focus our investigation
                                          on three planform parameters, namely aspect ratio, radial centroid location, and wing root offset, and
                                          their effect on the aerodynamic performance is characterised at a flow Reynolds number most relevant
                                          to small insects similar to fruit flies. We show that aspect ratio and root offset mainly influence the
                                          flow detachment area near the wingtip, whereas radial centroid location mainly influences the local
                                          flow evolution time on the wing surface. Overall, increasing the aspect ratio is beneficial to lift and
                                          efficiency up to a limit where flow detachment near the wing tip leads to less-favorable performance.
                                          Similarly, increasing the wing root offset leads to an increased flow detachment area near the wing
                                          tip, resulting in reduced lift coefficient, but the aerodynamic efficiency remains relatively unaffected
                                          by the root offset value for most aspect ratios. Finally, increasing the radial centroid location mainly
                                          increases the aerodynamic efficiency.

                                          Abstract: This study investigates the effect of wing planform shape on the aerodynamic performance
                                          of insect wings by numerically solving the incompressible Navier-Stokes equations. We define the
                                          wing planforms using a beta-function distribution and employ kinematics representative of normal
                                          hovering flight. In particular, we use three primary parameters to describe the planform geometry:
                                          aspect ratio, radial centroid location, and wing root offset. The force coefficients, flow structures,
Citation: Li, H.; Nabawy, M.R.A.          and aerodynamic efficiency for different wing planforms at a Reynolds number of 100 are evaluated.
Wing Planform Effect on the               It is found that the wing with the lowest aspect ratio of 1.5 results in the highest peaks of lift and
Aerodynamics of Insect Wings.
                                          drag coefficients during stroke reversals, whereas the higher aspect ratio wings produce higher lift
Insects 2022, 13, 459. https://
                                          and drag coefficients during mid half-stroke translation. For the wings considered, the leading-edge
doi.org/10.3390/insects13050459
                                          vortex detachment is found to be approximately at a location that is 3.5–5 mean chord lengths from
Academic Editor: Brian T. Forschler       the wing center of rotation for all aspect ratios and root offsets investigated. Consequently, the
                                          detachment area increases with the increase of aspect ratio and root offset, resulting in reduced
Received: 5 April 2022
Accepted: 11 May 2022
                                          aerodynamic coefficients. The radial centroid location is found to influence the local flow evolution
Published: 13 May 2022                    time, and this results in earlier formation/detachment of the leading-edge vortex for wings with a
                                          smaller radial centroid location. Overall, the best performance, when considering both average lift
Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutral
                                          coefficient and efficiency, is found at the intermediate aspect ratios of 4.5–6; increasing the centroid
with regard to jurisdictional claims in
                                          location mainly increases efficiency; and increasing the root offset leads to a decreased average lift
published maps and institutional affil-
iations.
                                          coefficient whilst leading to relatively small variations in aerodynamic efficiency for most aspect
                                          ratios.

                                          Keywords: insect flight; flapping wings; aerodynamics; wing planform; leading-edge vortex
Copyright: © 2022 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and           1. Introduction
conditions of the Creative Commons
                                               Flying insects are prevalent in nature and offer diverse examples of successful flight
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
                                          concepts. Despite their prolonged existence, serious steps towards understanding how
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
                                          insects fly only started in the past few decades. In fact, our understanding of insect wing
4.0/).




Insects 2022, 13, 459. https://doi.org/10.3390/insects13050459                                                https://www.mdpi.com/journal/insects
Insects 2022, 13, 459                                                                                            2 of 26




                        aerodynamics has lately been significantly improved, thanks to the numerous studies that
                        considered the primary aerodynamic mechanisms enabling insects to stay aloft while hover-
                        ing. These mechanisms include: (1) the formation of a stably attached leading-edge vortex
                        (LEV), which allows reattachment of flow on the wing’s upper surface, preventing stall and
                        augmenting lift production [1–4]; (2) rotational circulation due to the wing pitching rotation
                        at the end of each half-stroke, which is a main contributor to the transient force production
                        during stroke reversals [5]; (3) added mass effects, resulting from the periodic accelera-
                        tion and deceleration of the flapping wing, again influencing transient force production
                        mainly around stroke reversals [6]; and (4) wake capture, which is a unique aerodynamic
                        mechanism for flapping wings, arising from the interaction of the wing with wake shed
                        from the preceding half-stroke [1,5,7]. Despite the current progress, there is still limited
                        understanding of how the aerodynamic behaviour of flapping insect wings changes for dif-
                        ferent wing morphologies. The objective of this paper is, therefore, to provide an improved
                        understanding of the physics underlying insect-like flapping wing aerodynamics through
                        identifying the key morphological variables that can enhance aerodynamic performance at
                        this scale.
                              Early studies concerned with wing planform shape effects primarily focused on
                        aerodynamic force production. Usherwood and Ellington [8] conducted an experimental
                        campaign using revolving wing models of hawkmoth-like planform shape to study the
                        effect of aspect ratio on aerodynamic force production. By changing the wing aspect ratio
                        within a range between 2.27 and 7.92, they found that, when the wing angle of attack was
                        less than 65◦ , aspect ratio had little effect on aerodynamic force coefficients; nevertheless,
                        higher aspect ratio wings still resulted in a steeper growth in lift coefficient with the
                        increase of angle of attack. Luo and Sun [9] used Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD)
                        simulations to study the aerodynamic force production of different wing planform shapes
                        obtained from 10 different insect species. Their results showed that wing planform had
                        minor influence on the aerodynamic force coefficients. However, they only considered
                        a small range of aspect ratio values, between 2.84 and 5.45. Shahzad et al. [10] also
                        used CFD simulations to study the effect of radial centroid location and aspect ratio
                        on the aerodynamic performance of hovering insect-like flapping wings. The planform
                        shapes in their study were defined using the beta-function distribution, proposed by
                        Ellington [11] as representative of insect wing planform shapes. Their study investigated
                        wings with aspect ratio and radial centroid location values varying between 1.5–6.0 and
                        0.43–0.63, respectively. They found that lift coefficient increased with the increase of aspect
                        ratio, whereas aerodynamic efficiency defined as the ratio of average lift coefficient to
                        power coefficient reached its maximum value at an aspect ratio of 2.96. On the other
                        hand, increasing the radial centroid location was found to decrease the hovering efficiency.
                        However, in their study, a sinusoidal waveform was employed for both flapping and
                        pitching kinematics. Hence, the contribution from wing rotational/acceleration effects
                        during stroke reversals was rather weak, despite the fact that these effects can have a
                        significant influence on insect wing aerodynamic performance [5].
                              Several analytical studies have also been conducted to better understand the wing
                        planform effects within revolving/flapping motions. Ansari et al. [12] developed a poten-
                        tial flow-based model and used it to assess the effect of different wing planform shapes.
                        They found an increasing trend of lift with aspect ratio and root offset. They, additionally,
                        proposed that more area at the wing outboard region is beneficial for lift force production,
                        due to the higher velocity towards the wing tip. Nabawy and Crowther [13] developed a
                        quasi-steady lifting line theory and used it to investigate the aerodynamic performance of
                        revolving/flapping wings experiencing fully attached flows. They showed that increasing
                        the aspect ratio and decreasing the wing radial centroid location increases the wing lift
                        coefficient. In a series of studies using analytical models [14–16], Nabawy and Crowther
                        identified the optimum wing planform shape that would minimize the induced power
                        factor, a metric for lift efficiency production. They showed that as more wing area is allo-
                        cated near the wing root (smaller radial centroid location), the more efficient the planform
Insects 2022, 13, 459                                                                                             3 of 26




                        becomes with respect to induced power effects. Moreover, they identified the elliptic wing
                        planform as the optimum planform when profile power effects are concerned. In a study
                        on the effect of wing morphology on aerodynamics of wings in flies, Krishna et al. [17]
                        used numerical simulation to compare the aerodynamic force and power of a so-called
                        ‘ideal-shaped’ wing, a rectangular wing, and a wing planform similar to that of a blowfly,
                        all with the same wing area and span. The ‘ideal-shaped’ wing planform was derived
                        analytically based on the optimal distribution of circulation along the wingspan, taken
                        from Prandtl and Betz [18,19]. They found that for both revolving and flapping kinemat-
                        ics the rectangular wing and fly wing showed similar lift force and power performance,
                        whereas the ‘ideal-shaped’ wing, surprisingly, under-performed with respect to both lift
                        and efficiency.
                              The effect of wing planform shape on the evolution and attachment of the LEV on
                        insect wings has also been investigated. Phillips et al. [20,21] used a robotic flapping wing
                        apparatus to experimentally study rectangular wings with different aspect ratios and root
                        offsets at a Reynolds number of 1400. They found that for wing aspect ratios greater
                        than three, the LEV starts to detach at approximately 70% of wingspan at mid half-stroke;
                        furthermore, a higher aspect ratio results in earlier detachment of LEV. Moreover, they
                        found that circulatory lift from the LEV peaks at an aspect ratio of six. Similar observations
                        on the LEV detachment were found by Han et al. [22] for insect-like flapping wings with
                        aspect ratios greater than three, thus proposing that the lift coefficient peaks at an aspect
                        ratio of three. Harbig et al. [23] investigated Drosophila shaped wing planforms with aspect
                        ratios between 2.9 and 7.3 using CFD simulations. Small differences in lift coefficient were
                        found for wing aspect ratios between 2.9 and 5.1, but a decrease in lift coefficient was
                        found when the aspect ratio was further increased to 7.3. This led them to propose that the
                        reduction in LEV circulation near the wingtip at a high aspect ratio leads to the reduction
                        in lift coefficient. Kruyt et al. [24] used particle image velocimetry (PIV) to study the LEV
                        structures of revolving rectangular wings with different aspect ratios. They found that the
                        LEV remains attached up to a spanwise location that is four times of the wing chord length,
                        measured from the centre of rotation. Further outboard, the LEV lifts away from the wing
                        surface, leading to tip stall and reduced aerodynamic efficiency.
                              Most recently, the effect of wing planform shape on LEV structure and aerodynamic
                        performance has been investigated in connection to the Rossby number [25], defined as
                        the ratio of the radius of gyration to the mean chord length. Such investigations are
                        mainly useful for ascertaining the effect of the wing root offset (how distant the wing
                        root station is from the centre of rotation) on aerodynamic performance. Lee et al. [26]
                        studied rectangular revolving wings using CFD, with wing aspect ratios varying between
                        1 and 10. By changing the wing root offset, they forced the Rossby number to vary within
                        a range between 0.58 and 7.57. They found that when the Rossby number is kept fixed,
                        lift coefficient increases with the increase of aspect ratio until plateauing at aspect ratios
                        between four and five. On the other hand, they showed that increasing Rossby number, for
                        a given aspect ratio, leads to decreased lift coefficients due to the reduced stability of the
                        LEV. Jardin and Colonius [27] also investigated rectangular revolving wings with aspect
                        ratios ranging between 1 and 7, and Rossby numbers ranging between 1.73 and 5.77. They
                        found that for fixed Rossby number cases, lift coefficient increases monotonically with
                        aspect ratio, and that the increase rate is high for small aspect ratios but asymptotic for
                        large aspect ratios. On the other hand, for fixed aspect ratio cases, lift coefficient decreases
                        monotonically with the increase of the Rossby number. Similarly, Bhat et al. [28] also
                        demonstrated a decreasing lift coefficient with the increase of the Rossby number in a
                        numerical study of revolving wings. In fact, they proposed that the weakening of the LEV
                        due to the reduced spanwise flow caused the reduction of lift at higher Rossby numbers.
                              Despite the abundance of results in the literature, arguably, our understanding of the
                        effect of wing planform shape on the aerodynamics of insect wings is still limited. This is
                        because many of the existing studies have focused mainly on the effect of aspect ratio, but
                        provided less attention to investigating the radial centroid location and root offset effects,
Insects 2022, 13, 459                                                                                              4 of 26




                        which are arguably prominent features in defining the wing planform shape. In fact, most of
                        the investigated wings were either rectangular wings or of a specific insect-inspired shape;
                        hence, a systematic variation of the morphological parameters for representative insect
                        planforms is needed. Furthermore, most of the existing studies employed revolving wings
                        for the simplicity they bring while investigating the flow structure and aerodynamic forces;
                        however, insect wings employ reciprocating motions, where unsteady aerodynamic effects
                        can be significant due to the cyclic formation of vortical structures. As such, in this study,
                        we simultaneously investigate the effect of aspect ratio, radial centroid location, and root
                        offset of insect wings to provide a detailed understanding of the holistic effect of planform
                        shape on their aerodynamics performance. The wing geometry is defined using a beta-
                        function distribution, known to provide accurate representation (within 5% error) of many
                        natural insect wing planforms [11]. The kinematic functions used in this study provide
                        fair representation of ‘normal hovering’ flight. The flow structures and aerodynamic force
                        coefficients at a Reynolds number of 100, relevant to insects similar to fruit flies, are obtained
                        by numerically solving the incompressible Navier-Stokes equations using the open-source
                        CFD package OpenFOAM (Open-source Field Operation and Manipulation).
                              The rest of this paper is organised as follows: Section 2 provides the definition of
                        the wing planform shapes and kinematic waveforms chosen for investigation. The setup
                        and validation of the numerical model are also presented. Section 3 demonstrates the
                        simulation results for different wing planform cases, including the influence of aspect ratio,
                        radial centroid location, and root offset on the flow structure evolution, instantaneous and
                        average aerodynamic force production, and power efficiency. Finally, Section 4 presents the
                        conclusions of this study.

                        2. Materials and Methods
                        2.1. Wing Planforms and Kinematics
                             The wing planform representation used in this study is based on the beta-function
                        distribution of wing area, conceived by Ellington [11]. Here, the non-dimensional wing
                        chord length (i.e., local wing chord length divide by the mean chord, ĉ(r̂ ) = c(r̂ )/c) along
                        the wing is given by [11]:
                                                                       r̂ p−1 (1 − r̂ )q−1
                                                         ĉ(r̂ ) = R 1                                               (1)
                                                                          p−1 (1 − r̂ )q−1 dr̂
                                                                    0 r̂
                        where r̂ = r/R is the non-dimensional radial position along the wing length, R. The
                        parameters p and q are defined using the non-dimensional radial centroid location and the
                        non-dimensional radius of gyration location, r̂1 and r̂2 , respectively, as follows [11]:
                                                                                   !
                                                                 r̂1 (1 − r̂1 )
                                                        p = r̂1                 −1                                (2)
                                                                    r̂22 − r̂12
                                                                                          !
                                                                       r̂ (1 − r̂1 )
                                                        q = (1 − r̂1 ) 1 2           −1                               (3)
                                                                          r̂2 − r̂12
                        The parameters r̂1 and r̂2 for the wing planform shape are linked via the relation
                        r̂2 = 0.929[r̂1 ]0.732 proposed by Ellington [11]. As such, r̂2 value can be evaluated based on
                        a prescribed value of r̂1 . The aspect ratio of the wing is defined as:

                                                                        rT − rR
                                                                 AR =                                                 (4)
                                                                           c
                        where r T and r R are the radial positions of the wing tip and wing root, respectively. The
                        non-dimensional root offset r̂ R is defined by:
                                                                             rR
                                                                    r̂ R =                                            (5)
                                                                              c
Insects  2022,13,
 Insects2022,  13,459
                   x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                                              55 of
                                                                                                                                                     of 26
                                                                                                                                                         26




                                   wherer R isisthe
                                  where            thedistance
                                                       distanceby  bywhich
                                                                       whichthe    thewing
                                                                                        wingroot
                                                                                               rootstation
                                                                                                      stationisisdisplaced/offset
                                                                                                                  displaced/offset fromfromthe thecentre
                                                                                                                                                    centre
                                  of
                                   ofrotation.
                                        rotation.
                                          Based
                                          Basedon onthe
                                                     theabove
                                                         abovedefinitions,
                                                                   definitions,the    theeffect
                                                                                           effectofofwing
                                                                                                      wing planform
                                                                                                              planform shape
                                                                                                                          shapeononthethe
                                                                                                                                        aerodynamics
                                                                                                                                            aerodynam-
                                  of  insect  wings  can  be  investigated         by  varying    the  aspect  ratio, radial
                                   ics of insect wings can be investigated by varying the aspect ratio, radial centroid       centroid    location,   and
                                                                                                                                                location,
                                  wing     root offset. Note    that  other    secondary      planform       parameters
                                   and wing root offset. Note that other secondary planform parameters such as the shape   such  as  the   shape   of  the
                                                                                                                                                         of
                                  leading-edge      contour    or  the  location       of the pitching     axis  are  not considered
                                   the leading-edge contour or the location of the pitching axis are not considered in this               in  this study.
                                  The
                                   study.aspect
                                             Theratio  range
                                                  aspect  ratiochosen
                                                                  rangefor     investigation is
                                                                          chosen for                  AR = is
                                                                                            investigation     1.5–7.5,=the  radialthe
                                                                                                                        1.5–7.5,    centroid
                                                                                                                                        radial location
                                                                                                                                                 centroid
                                  islocation
                                      investigated   within     the  range    r̂   =  0.4–0.6,   and   the non-dimensional
                                              is investigated within the range ̂ = 0.4–0.6, and the non-dimensional wing root
                                                                                 1                                               wing     root  offset   is
                                  investigated     within   the   range  r̂    =   0–3.  These    chosen    ranges   for investigation
                                   offset is investigated within the range ̂ = 0–3. These chosen ranges for investigation are
                                                                            R                                                               are selected
                                  to   ensureto
                                   selected     most  insect
                                                  ensure      wings
                                                           most         planforms
                                                                    insect                are covered,
                                                                             wings planforms           arefollowing     data collected
                                                                                                            covered, following       data in   [11]. The
                                                                                                                                             collected   in
                                  wing                                                                    c,
                                   [11]. The wing thickness is set as 5% of the mean chord length, ̅, for all cases, andpitching
                                          thickness  is set  as  5%  of the   mean      chord   length,      for all cases, and  the  axis   of   the axis
                                  rotation is constantly set at 0.25c from the leading-edge. The specific values considered in
                                   of pitching rotation is constantly set at 0.25 ̅ from the leading-edge. The specific values
                                  this study for aspect ratio, non-dimensional radial centroid location, and non-dimensional
                                   considered in this study for aspect ratio, non-dimensional radial centroid location, and
                                  wing root offset are summarized in Table 1. The resulting wing planform morphologies for
                                   non-dimensional wing root offset are summarized in Table 1. The resulting wing plan-
                                  these geometric parameters are visualised in Figure 1.
                                   form morphologies for these geometric parameters are visualised in Figure 1.
                                  Table 1. Morphological parameters describing the wing planforms considered for investigation.
                                   Table 1. Morphological parameters describing the wing planforms considered for investigation.
                                                Morphological Parameter                                                Values
                                       Morphological Parameter                                                Values
                                                                   AR                                             1.5, 6,
                                                                                                         1.5, 3, 4.5,  3, 7.5
                                                                                                                          4.5, 6, 7.5
                                                                   r̂1                                               0.4, 0.5, 0.6
                                                           ̂       r̂ R
                                                                                                           0.4, 0.5, 0.6
                                                                                                                       0, 1, 2, 3
                                                       ̂                                                     0, 1, 2, 3




                                   Figure 1. Wing planform shapes for different aspect ratios and non-dimensional radial centroid lo-
                                  Figure 1. Wing planform shapes for different aspect ratios and non-dimensional radial centroid
                                   cations.
                                  locations.

                                        Thewing
                                       The    wingmotion
                                                    motionemployed
                                                            employed in  inthis
                                                                            thisstudy
                                                                                 studyisisselected
                                                                                            selectedto
                                                                                                     torepresent
                                                                                                        representlift-based
                                                                                                                    lift-based‘normal
                                                                                                                               ‘normal
                                   hovering’   kinematics  of  insect wings,   where  the    flapping  waveform    is
                                  hovering’ kinematics of insect wings, where the flapping waveform is defined using   defined  using aa
                                   sinusoidal   function near the  beginning  and  end   of the half-stroke, whereas    between
                                  sinusoidal function near the beginning and end of the half-stroke, whereas between stroke      stroke
                                   reversals, the
                                  reversals,   the wing
                                                    wing has
                                                          hasconstant
                                                              constantvelocity.
                                                                         velocity. The
                                                                                    The waveform
                                                                                         waveform function
                                                                                                      function for
                                                                                                                for flapping
                                                                                                                     flapping angular
                                                                                                                               angular
                                   velocityatatstroke
                                  velocity      strokereversal
                                                       reversalis,
                                                                is,thus,
                                                                    thus,given
                                                                          givenbyby[29]:
                                                                                    [29]:
                                                                         "    ( ̂ − ̂ )#
                                                           ( ̂ ) =. ± cosπ t̂ − t̂sa
                                                               .                            ,    ̂ ≤ ̂≤ ̂ + ̂                      (6)
                                                      φ t̂ = ±φ M cos               ̂     ,   t̂sa ≤ t̂ ≤ t̂sa + t̂ a             (6)
                                                                               t̂ a
                                   where       is the maximum flapping angular velocity; ̂ = / is the non-dimensional
                                         .
                                   time ranging
                                  where  φ M is thebetween
                                                     maximum  0 and     1 within
                                                                   flapping angular a flapping    t̂ = t/T̂ is
                                                                                       velocity; cycle;        = the/non-dimensional
                                                                                                                       (    being the
                                  time ranging between 0 and 1 within a flapping cycle; t̂ a = t a /T (t a being the acceleration
Insects 2022, 13, 459                                                                                                                   6 of 26




                              duration) is the total non-dimensional acceleration duration at the beginning and end of a
                              half-stroke; and t̂sa is the non-dimensional time at which wing acceleration starts.
                                   The pitching kinematic waveform is defined similarly, using a sinusoidal function
                              near the beginning and end of the half-stroke, while allowing a constant angle-of-attack
                              between stroke reversals. The pitching angular velocity near stroke reversal is, thus, given
                              by [29]:                           (         "               #)
                                                 .         Θ                2π t̂ − t̂sp
                                                θ t̂ = ±           1 − cos                     , t̂sp ≤ t̂ ≤ t̂sp + t̂ p (7)
                                                            t̂ p                  t̂ p
                              where the wing pitch amplitude, Θ, is fixed as 90◦ for all wing planform shapes in the
                                   current study, corresponding to an angle of attack at mid half-stroke of 45◦ , known
 Insects 2022, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                 7 ofto
                                                                                                                          26
                              allow maximum lift coefficient values [30]; t̂ p = t p /T (t p being the wing pitch duration)
                              is the total non-dimensional pitching duration during a half-stroke; and t̂sp is the non-
                              dimensional time
                               structure   interaction  at which     wing pitching
                                                              simulation,   Nakata andstarts.  In[36]
                                                                                             Liu   the current
                                                                                                       analysedstudy,
                                                                                                                   the the    flapping stroke
                                                                                                                        aerodynamic      perfor-
                              amplitude     is fixed     as  160 ◦ for all wing planform shapes, which is close to the upper limit
                               mance for the hovering flexible wings of the hawkmoth (Manduca sexta). They found that
                              reported   for insect
                               wing flexibility      can wing    kinematics
                                                             increase          [31]. The non-dimensional
                                                                       lift production     but also costs more   acceleration     and pitching
                                                                                                                     power. Overall,     only a
                              durations,   t̂
                               3.4% increase   and
                                              a in p  t̂  , are chosen   as 0.25.  The  wing    kinematic   waveforms
                                                      aerodynamic efficiency was found for the flexible wing when compared  for  both flapping
                              anda rigid
                               to  pitching
                                          wing.motions
                                                     As a arefinalshown   in Figure
                                                                   example,    Zhao et2. al.
                                                                                         Note[37]that, constant flapping
                                                                                                   used a dynamically-scaled angular   velocity
                                                                                                                                    mechanical
                              and  constant angle
                               model to   experimentally  of attack   waveforms
                                                                  measure   the are      known to
                                                                                 aerodynamic          be the
                                                                                                   forces on most    efficient
                                                                                                              flapping           waveforms
                                                                                                                         wings with          in
                                                                                                                                        variable
                              terms  of aerodynamic           power   consumption     to  sustain   a given  amount     of
                               trailing-edge flexural stiffness at a Reynolds number of 2000. They showed that for low to  lift [30]. However,
                              these
                               mediumwaveforms
                                          angles of  areattack,
                                                            unrealistic  for flapping
                                                                    increasing          flightdecreases
                                                                                 flexibility    realization
                                                                                                          thenear  stroke reversals,
                                                                                                                aerodynamic             despite
                                                                                                                                  force produc-
                              being   mathematically
                               tion but         lift-to-drag ratio remains approximately constant. It was also noted aingood
                                                               elegant.   As  such,  the  waveforms      adopted     here   represent      their
                              compromise        that   is close enough
                               study that the instantaneous             forcetotraces
                                                                                these reveal
                                                                                        optimum       waveforms
                                                                                                 no major           whilein
                                                                                                            differences      maintaining    the
                                                                                                                                the underlying
                              practicality    aspect.
                               modes of force generation between flexible and rigid wings.




                               Figure 2. Employed wing kinematics waveforms for flapping and pitching.
                              Figure 2. Employed wing kinematics waveforms for flapping and pitching.

                               2.2. Numerical Simulation
                                   The current study solves the incompressible Navier-Stokes equations for the flow
                               around the 3D wing:
Insects 2022, 13, 459                                                                                              7 of 26




                              The average velocity of the wing at radius of gyration, r̂2 , over a flapping cycle, U2 , is
                        used to define the Reynolds number for a given mean chord value and kinematic viscosity, ν,
                        based on:
                                                                         U2 c
                                                                   Re =                                               (8)
                                                                          ν
                              We only consider a Reynolds number of 100, which is relevant to small insects similar
                        to fruit flies. It is worth noting here that the Reynolds number was found to have a
                        relatively small influence on force production for insect-like flapping wings in several other
                        studies [10,25,32,33]; however, some evidence showed that the mechanism for LEV stability
                        (e.g., core-wise flow strength) is different between low and high Reynolds numbers [34].
                              In the current study, the flapping frequency for all planform cases is kept constant,
                        and the kinematic viscosity is changed to ensure a constant Reynolds number value of
                        100 is achieved. This ensures that differences in aerodynamic and flow features observed
                        from our simulations for the different wings considered are due to planform effects.
                              Finally, it should be noted that we model insect wings as rigid surfaces; hence, the
                        effects of wing twist along the span, which is normally observed in real insects, is not
                        considered. Given that the twist distribution contributes towards controlling the load
                        distribution on a wing surface, it is not unexpected that any twist distribution resulting
                        from wing flexibility may have an influence on the LEV development and detachment.
                        Thus, this effect is an important direction to be further investigated in future studies.
                        That said, it should be noted that a wide range of previous studies have also shown
                        that rigid wings are able to capture the primary aerodynamic characteristics of hovering
                        insect wings with reasonable accuracy. For example, Du and Sun [35] used numerical
                        simulations to study the effects of camber and spanwise twist deformations for the wings
                        of a hovering hoverfly (Eristalis tenax). Their model showed that the time courses of lift,
                        drag, and aerodynamic power coefficients for a deformable wing are very similar to that
                        produced by a rigid wing, although a 10% higher lift was found for the flexible wing. Using
                        a fluid-structure interaction simulation, Nakata and Liu [36] analysed the aerodynamic
                        performance for the hovering flexible wings of the hawkmoth (Manduca sexta). They found
                        that wing flexibility can increase lift production but also costs more power. Overall, only a
                        3.4% increase in aerodynamic efficiency was found for the flexible wing when compared to
                        a rigid wing. As a final example, Zhao et al. [37] used a dynamically-scaled mechanical
                        model to experimentally measure the aerodynamic forces on flapping wings with variable
                        trailing-edge flexural stiffness at a Reynolds number of 2000. They showed that for low to
                        medium angles of attack, increasing flexibility decreases the aerodynamic force production
                        but the lift-to-drag ratio remains approximately constant. It was also noted in their study
                        that the instantaneous force traces reveal no major differences in the underlying modes of
                        force generation between flexible and rigid wings.

                        2.2. Numerical Simulation
                            The current study solves the incompressible Navier-Stokes equations for the flow
                        around the 3D wing:
                                                              ∂ui
                                                                  =0                                      (9)
                                                              ∂xi
                                                     ∂ui    ∂              1 ∂p
                                                                                 + ν ∇2 u i
                                                                      
                                                         +      u j ui = −                                           (10)
                                                     ∂t    ∂x j            ρ ∂xi
                        where ui and u j denote the flow velocity components in the global Cartesian coordinate
                        system; xi and x j denote the coordinate components within the domain; t denotes time; p
                        denotes pressure; and ρ denotes the fluid density.
                             The open-source package OpenFOAM was employed to solve the above equations
                        using a cell-centred finite volume method. For the incompressible flow, a segregated
                        PIMPLE algorithm, which integrates a PISO (Pressure-Implicit with Splitting of Operators)
                        inner loop and a SIMPLE (Semi-Implicit Method for Pressure Linked Equations) outer
                        corrector loop, is used to solve the pressure-velocity coupling [38,39]. A second order
                    The open-source package OpenFOAM was employed to solve the above equations
           using a cell-centred finite volume method. For the incompressible flow, a segregated PIM-
           PLE algorithm, which integrates a PISO (Pressure-Implicit with Splitting of Operators)
           inner loop and a SIMPLE (Semi-Implicit Method for Pressure Linked Equations) outer
           corrector
Insects 2022, 13, 459   loop, is used to solve the pressure-velocity coupling [38,39]. A second order cen- 8 of 26
           tral/backward differencing scheme is used for spatial gradient/time evolution terms. The
           pressure equation is solved using a GAMG (Geometric-algebraic Multi Grid) method, and
           the velocity equation is      solved using a
                                  central/backward           Gauss-Seidel
                                                       differencing           method.
                                                                      scheme is  used for spatial gradient/time evolution terms.
                                  The pressure
                    The computational     set-upequation
                                                  consistsis of a
                                                              solved using
                                                                   stationarya GAMG     (Geometric-algebraic
                                                                                outer spherical              Multia Grid)
                                                                                                    domain and      mov-method,
                                  and  the velocity  equation  is solved  using a Gauss-Seidel   method.
           ing inner spherical domain with the wing placed at the origin. The outer domain far-field
                                        The computational set-up consists of a stationary outer spherical domain and a moving
           boundary has a uniform          fixed zero values for (gauge) pressure and velocity gradient. A
                                  inner spherical domain with the wing placed at the origin. The outer domain far-field
           no-slip boundary boundary
                                  conditionhas is a
                                                  applied
                                                     uniformatfixed
                                                                the zero
                                                                     wingvalues
                                                                             surface.
                                                                                   for The
                                                                                      (gauge)inner  and and
                                                                                               pressure  outer domains
                                                                                                             velocity gradient. A
           are linked with a spherical       sliding   interface.   The   inner  sphere    has a  radius of 36
                                  no-slip boundary condition is applied at the wing surface. The inner and outer̅ and  thedomains
           outer sphere has aare    radius
                                      linked    40 ̅ afor all
                                            ofwith            thesliding
                                                       spherical   wing interface.
                                                                           planforms,  Thewhich   ensureshas
                                                                                            inner sphere  that the
                                                                                                               radiusflow
                                                                                                                        of 36c and
           disturbances resulting from wing motions have negligible influence on the far-fieldthat the
                                  the outer  sphere   has a radius   of 40c for all the  wing planforms,  which   ensures
                                  flow disturbances resulting from wing motions have negligible influence on the far-field
           boundary. The computational            meshes for the different wing planforms are generated us-
                                  boundary. The computational meshes for the different wing planforms are generated using
           ing the snappyHexMesh           utility within OpenFOAM. The computational domain and mesh
                                  the snappyHexMesh utility within OpenFOAM. The computational domain and mesh
           distribution near the      wing surface
                                  distribution         are
                                                near the    shown
                                                          wing        in are
                                                                surface  Figure
                                                                             shown3. in Figure 3.




         Figure 3. Computational     domain
                              Figure 3.       and mesh
                                        Computational     setup.and
                                                        domain    (a)mesh
                                                                      Domain    and
                                                                           setup.     boundary
                                                                                  (a) Domain    definitions; (b)
                                                                                             and boundary          mesh(b) mesh
                                                                                                            definitions;
         distribution near the wing   surface;
                              distribution       note
                                           near the   that
                                                    wing   extra note
                                                         surface; refinement
                                                                      that extrawas  applied
                                                                                refinement   at both
                                                                                           was appliedthe  wing’s
                                                                                                       at both     lead- leading-
                                                                                                               the wing’s
         ing- and trailing-edges.
                              and trailing-edges.

                                   Throughout the
              Throughout the simulations,            simulations,
                                                   the            the inner
                                                        inner domain         domain
                                                                          rotates  aboutrotates
                                                                                             theabout  the origin
                                                                                                   origin         to produce the
                                                                                                           to produce
                             required flapping and pitching motions. The inverse distance algorithm is used as a means
         the required flapping and pitching motions. The inverse distance algorithm is used as a
                             for interpolating the fluid variables at the sliding interface. Thus, no mesh deformation or
         means for interpolating     the fluid
                             re-meshing           variables
                                           is required, whichatensures
                                                                the sliding    interface.
                                                                        a high-quality    meshThus,   no mesh
                                                                                                 throughout   the defor-
                                                                                                                  simulations.
         mation or re-meshing is     required,    which   ensures   a high-quality       mesh   throughout
                                   The lift, drag, and power coefficients are evaluated using the relations:   the sim-
         ulations.                                                                     
              The lift, drag, and power coefficients are evaluated             2L  t̂
                                                                              using the relations:
                                                                      CL t̂ =                                               (11)
                                                                                   ρU22 S
                                                                      2 ( ̂)
                                                             ( ̂) =           2D t̂
                                                                               
                                                                                                                   (11)
                                                                      CD t̂ =                                                (12)
                                                                              ρU22 S
                                                                    2 ( ̂ )  2P t̂
                                                                                    
                                                             ( ̂) =   CP t̂ =                                       (12)     (13)
                                                                              ρU23 S
                                                                                                  
                                where L t̂ and D t̂ are the instantaneous lift and drag forces; P t̂ is the aerodynamic
                                                                  2 ( ̂)                                           → 
                                power at time instance t̂, ( ̂ ) = from the inner product of aerodynamic moment,
                                                          obtained                                           (13) M t̂ ,
                                                      → 
                                and angular velocity, ω t̂ :
                                                                          →  → 
                                                                    P t̂ = M t̂ · ω t̂                              (14)
Insects 2022, 13, 459                                                                                           9 of 26




                            The aerodynamic performance is also assessed using the average lift, drag, and aero-
                        dynamic power coefficients over a flapping cycle, based on the relations:
                                                                     Z 1        
                                                              CL =         CL t̂ dt̂                              (15)
                                                                      0
                                                                     Z 1        
                                                             CD =          CD t̂ dt̂                              (16)
                                                                      0
                                                                     Z 1        
                                                             CP =          CP t̂ dt̂                              (17)
                                                                      0
                             The mass specific power, P∗ , [40] is expressed as:
                                                                      R1       
                                                                ∗      0 P t̂ dt̂
                                                              P =                                                 (18)
                                                                           Mg

                        where M is the total mass, and g is the gravitational acceleration. Assuming lift equals to
                               R1     
                        weight, 0 L t̂ dt̂ = Mg, which reasonably holds for insects in hovering flight. The above
                        equation reduces to:
                                                               s                       s
                                                    C               2Mg     C              2Mg   CP
                                            P = U2 × P =
                                              ∗
                                                                           × P=                × 3/2              (19)
                                                    CL              ρC L S  CL              ρS  C L

                        In the above equation, the first term is constant for a given mass and wing area; hence,
                        the second term can be used as a metric for evaluating aerodynamic efficiency. In the
                        current study, the inverse of this second term, which we name as power factor, Pf , due to
                        the similarity with the classical power factor for fixed wing motions (CL3/2 /CD ) [25,41], is
                        defined as:
                                                                         3/2
                                                                       C
                                                                 Pf = L                                          (20)
                                                                        CP
                        The above definition of the power factor is used in the current study to measure the
                        aerodynamic efficiency for different wing planform shapes.
                             In the current study, the vortical structures are identified using the well-known Q-
                        criterion [42]. It is worth mentioning, at this stage, that the simulations in this study are
                        conducted using the Computational Shared Facility (CSF3) at the University of Manchester
                        comprising a range of CPU cores from Intel Xeon E5-2640 Sandy Bridge to Intel Xeon
                        Gold 6130 Broadwell. Each simulation case is set using 32 cores running in parallel. The
                        computational time for each case is between 48 to 72 h, depending on the wing planform
                        shape.

                        2.3. Convergence Assessment
                             For our simulations, mesh systems with approximately 2.0–5.6 million cells are em-
                        ployed, which have approximately 29,000–144,000 nodes on the wing surface, depending
                        on the wing planform case. The time step size (∆t) is set as 1 × 10−3 (relative to the flap-
                        ping cycle, T). These numerical settings are decided based on a convergence study that
                        compared the results obtained from the mesh with three million cells and a time step size
                        of 1 × 10−3 to a higher-density mesh with six million cells and a smaller time step size of
                        5 × 10−4 for a baseline wing geometry with AR = 3, r̂1 = 0.5, r̂ R = 0, representing a wing
                        geometry typically found in insects [11,25]. The comparison of the instantaneous lift and
                        drag coefficients from this convergence study is presented in Figure 4. The average force
                        coefficients are also provided in Table 2. The results show that the maximum difference in
                        C L and C D for the different mesh and time step size cases is less than 0.7%. As such, the
                        mesh size with three million cells and the time step size of 1 × 10−3 are deemed acceptable
                        for the baseline wing geometry demonstrated here.
                         × 10−4 for a baseline wing geometry with         = 3, ̂ = 0.5, ̂ = 0, representing a wing
                         geometry typically found in insects [11,25]. The comparison of the instantaneous lift and
                         drag coefficients from this convergence study is presented in Figure 4. The average force
                         coefficients are also provided in Table 2. The results show that the maximum difference
Insects 2022, 13, 459
                         in ̅ and ̅ for the different mesh and time step size cases is less than 0.7%. As such,    10 of 26
                         the mesh size with three million cells and the time step size of 1 × 10−3 are deemed accepta-
                         ble for the baseline wing geometry demonstrated here.




                         Figure 4. Mesh and time step convergence results. Negligible difference between cases is evident.
                        Figure 4. Mesh and time step convergence results. Negligible difference between cases is evident.
                         Table2.2.Average
                        Table      Averagelift
                                           liftand
                                                anddrag
                                                   drag coefficients
                                                        coefficients for
                                                                     for the
                                                                         theconvergence
                                                                             convergencestudy.
                                                                                         study.
                             Mesh Cells, Time Step                                  ¯                                        ¯
                             Mesh Cells, Time Step                                  CL                                      CD
                           3 million cells, ∆ = 1 × 10−3                         1.460                                  2.046
                          36million  cells,∆t∆= 1= ×
                             millioncells,               −3−3
                                                   1 ×1010                       1.471
                                                                                  1.460                                 2.052
                                                                                                                           2.046
                                           ∆t            −3−4
                             million cells, ∆ = 5 × 10
                          63million cells,    = 1  ×  10                          1.471
                                                                                 1.460                                     2.052
                                                                                                                        2.046
                                                         −4
                          36million  cells,∆t∆= 5= ×
                             millioncells,         5 ×1010−4                      1.460
                                                                                 1.470                                     2.046
                                                                                                                        2.052
                          6 million cells, ∆t = 5 × 10−4                           1.470                                    2.052
                                The flow evolution history for the baseline case used for the convergence study is
                          shownTheinflowFigure   5a. The history
                                             evolution     red and for blue thecolours
                                                                                  baselineindicate
                                                                                               case counter-clockwise
                                                                                                      used for the convergenceand clockwisestudy is
                          rotating   vortices    with  respect    to  the  axis  from    wing    root
                        shown in Figure 5a. The red and blue colours indicate counter-clockwise and    to    wing  tip. The  flow   structures
                                                                                                                                         clockwise
                          at sevenvortices
                        rotating      differentwith
                                                  spanwise
                                                       respect  locations
                                                                   to the axisbetween
                                                                                  from the wingwingrootroot    and wingtip
                                                                                                          to wing    tip. Thefor    a range
                                                                                                                                 flow           of
                                                                                                                                        structures
                          time  instances     are  shown    in   Figure   5b.  In  this  study,   the   force
                        at seven different spanwise locations between the wing root and wingtip for a range of  coefficients   are  shown      for
                          the fifth
                        time         flapping
                               instances      arecycle
                                                  shown  where    the flow
                                                             in Figure     5b.hasInreached
                                                                                    this study, periodic
                                                                                                    the forcestate coefficients
                                                                                                                   and initial disturbances
                                                                                                                                   are shown for
                          have   diminished,      and  the   flow   structures     are  shown
                        the fifth flapping cycle where the flow has reached periodic state and    for  the    second   halfinitial
                                                                                                                            of the disturbances
                                                                                                                                     fifth flap-
                          ping cycle due to the symmetry between forward and backward half-strokes. Addition-
                        have diminished, and the flow structures are shown for the second half of the fifth flapping
                          ally, all average quantities, in this study, were evaluated over the fifth flapping cycle.
                        cycle due to the symmetry between forward and backward half-strokes. Additionally, all
                                To provide a general view of flow structure evolution on insect wings, the flow de-
                        average quantities, in this study, were evaluated over the fifth flapping cycle.
                          velopment for the baseline wing planform is first investigated. At the beginning of the
                               To provide a general view of flow structure evolution on insect wings, the flow
                          half-stroke, ̂ = 4.5, the leading-edge vortex (LEV) starts to form on the leading-edge of
                        development for the baseline wing planform is first investigated. At the beginning of the
                          the wing. The separated LEV and tip vortex (TV) from the previous half-stroke remain in
                        half-stroke, t̂ = 4.5, the leading-edge vortex (LEV) starts to form on the leading-edge                                    of
                          the wake region near the wing surface. The wing enters the wake region at ̂ = 4.55; at
                        the  wing.      The   separated     LEV     and   tip   vortex    (TV)   from     the   previous
                          the same time, the trailing-edge vortex (TEV) starts to form at the trailing-edge of the
                                                                                                                            half-stroke      remain
                        inwing.
                            the wake
                                  At ̂ =region      near
                                             4.6–4.65,  thethe   wing surface.
                                                              connected      LEV, TEV,The and wingTVenters
                                                                                                         form the    wake region
                                                                                                                 a ring-like  structure,at t̂ and
                                                                                                                                              = 4.55;
                        atthe
                            theTEV
                                 same     time,
                                     starts      the trailing-edge
                                             to detach   from the wing    vortex    (TEV)
                                                                              surface,        startsthe
                                                                                         whereas       to LEV
                                                                                                            formremains
                                                                                                                   at the trailing-edge
                                                                                                                           close to the wing   of the
                        wing.          t̂
                          surface. The LEV has larger size towards the wingtip, resulting in a conical shaped vortexand
                                  At      = 4.6–4.65,   the   connected       LEV,   TEV,     and    TV     form   a ring-like    structure,
                        the   TEV starts
                          structure   attachedto detach     fromleading-edge.
                                                  on the wing        the wing surface,After ̂whereas
                                                                                                  = 4.75, the thevortex-ring
                                                                                                                   LEV remains        closeinto
                                                                                                                               develops        to the
                        wing    surface.     The  LEV    has   larger   size   towards      the  wingtip,
                          an elongated tube-like structure formed by the LEV and TV, which convects vorticity  resulting   in  a conical     shaped
                        vortex   structure
                          downstream           attached
                                            into the wake.onThe the flow
                                                                     wingstructure
                                                                             leading-edge.
                                                                                        remains  After    t̂ = 4.75,
                                                                                                    similar    until the
                                                                                                                     endvortex-ring       develops
                                                                                                                          of the half-stroke,
                          but the LEV gradually increases in size until ̂ = 4.95, where a new TEV starts to appear
                        into  an  elongated      tube-like     structure    formed     by    the  LEV    and    TV,  which   convects      vorticity
                        downstream into the wake. The flow structure remains similar until end of the half-stroke,
                        but the LEV gradually increases in size until t̂ = 4.95, where a new TEV starts to appear
                        at the trailing-edge. At end of the half-stroke, t̂ = 5, a larger TEV is evident near the
                        trailing-edge and the LEV separates from the leading-edge and detaches from the wing
                        surface at the outboard wing region.
Insects 2022, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                                       11 of 26




Insects 2022, 13, 459
                                  at the trailing-edge. At end of the half-stroke, ̂ = 5, a larger TEV is evident near the11trail-
                                                                                                                              of 26
                                  ing-edge and the LEV separates from the leading-edge and detaches from the wing sur-
                                  face at the outboard wing region.




                                  Figure
                                   Figure5.5.Flow
                                              Flowevolution
                                                    evolutionatatdifferent
                                                                   differenttime
                                                                              timeinstances
                                                                                    instancesfor
                                                                                               forthe
                                                                                                   thebaseline
                                                                                                       baselinecase.
                                                                                                                case.(a)
                                                                                                                      (a)Complete
                                                                                                                          Completeflow
                                                                                                                                   flowstructure
                                                                                                                                         structure
                                  on the  wing  surface.  (b) Flow   structure   at different  spanwise   locations. Colour  map
                                   on the wing surface. (b) Flow structure at different spanwise locations. Colour map representsrepresents  kin-
                                  ematic  pressure   on the  wing   surface.   For  clarity of visualisations, the wing   view angle
                                   kinematic pressure on the wing surface. For clarity of visualisations, the wing view angle is keptis kept con-
                                  stant, and and
                                   constant,  thusthus
                                                   is not
                                                        is reflective  of the
                                                           not reflective  of wing’s   instantaneous
                                                                               the wing’s               angle
                                                                                            instantaneous     of attack.
                                                                                                            angle of attack.

                                  2.4.Validation
                                  2.4. Validationofofthe
                                                      theNumerical
                                                         NumericalSet-Up
                                                                   Set-Up
                                          To provide
                                         To   provide aa validation
                                                           validation demonstration
                                                                        demonstration of   of the
                                                                                               the developed
                                                                                                   developed numerical
                                                                                                                   numerical solver,
                                                                                                                                 solver, thethe lift
                                                                                                                                                 lift
                                   coefficientvalues
                                  coefficient     valuesofof the
                                                              the well-known
                                                                   well-knownexperimental
                                                                                 experimentalbenchmark
                                                                                                  benchmarkfruit  fruitfly
                                                                                                                        fly case
                                                                                                                            case ofof Dickinson
                                                                                                                                      Dickinson
                                   et al.
                                  et  al. [5]
                                           [5] are
                                               are compared
                                                    compared against
                                                                 againstresults
                                                                          resultsfor
                                                                                   forthe
                                                                                       thesame
                                                                                            samecase
                                                                                                   caseevaluated
                                                                                                          evaluatedusingusingthethecurrent
                                                                                                                                     currentnu-  nu-
                                   merical    set-up.  Moreover,    the simulation   results  from   several   CFD    studies
                                  merical set-up. Moreover, the simulation results from several CFD studies in the literature  in  the literature
                                   thatalso
                                  that    alsoprovided
                                                providedananassessment
                                                               assessmentagainst
                                                                             againstthe
                                                                                     thesame
                                                                                         samefruit
                                                                                                 fruitfly
                                                                                                       flyexperimental
                                                                                                            experimentalcase caseareareincluded
                                                                                                                                         included
                                   forcomparison.
                                  for   comparison.Here,Here,thethewing
                                                                    wingplanform
                                                                           planformshape
                                                                                      shapeemployed
                                                                                              employedfor   forvalidation
                                                                                                                 validationisisaanatural
                                                                                                                                    naturalfruit
                                                                                                                                               fruit
                                   fly wing
                                  fly  wing similar
                                                similarto
                                                        to that
                                                            that employed
                                                                  employedby   byDickinson
                                                                                  Dickinsonet  etal.
                                                                                                  al.[5],
                                                                                                      [5], and
                                                                                                           and isis shown
                                                                                                                     shown inin Figure
                                                                                                                                 Figure 6a.6a. The
                                                                                                                                                The
                                   wing    has   an  aspect   ratio of 2.44,  and  the  wing’s   cross   section    has  a thickness
                                  wing has an aspect ratio of 2.44, and the wing’s cross section has a thickness to mean chord            to mean
                                   chordofratio
                                  ratio      4%. of
                                                  The4%.  Thekinematics
                                                       wing     wing kinematics
                                                                            for thefor the advanced,
                                                                                    advanced,             symmetric,
                                                                                                  symmetric,            and delayed
                                                                                                                  and delayed     pitchingpitching
                                                                                                                                              mo-
                                   motion     waveforms      are  all taken   from  the experiments       of  Dickinson
                                  tion waveforms are all taken from the experiments of Dickinson et al. [5], and the simula-et al.  [5],   and the
                                   simulations
                                  tions            are out
                                          are carried  carried
                                                             at a out at a Reynolds
                                                                  Reynolds    number number       of 136.
                                                                                       of 136. Note    thatNote     that all presented
                                                                                                             all presented    results from  results
                                                                                                                                                the
                                   from the different CFD studies employ wing planforms and kinematics consistent with
                                   that of Dickinson et al. [5]; nevertheless, in some cases, e.g., as in Kweon and Choi [43], a
                                   detailed explanation of the used planform is not explicitly provided. Figure 6b shows the
FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                                                   12 of 26



       Insects 2022, 13, 459                                                                                                                 12 of 26
                   different CFD studies employ wing planforms and kinematics consistent with that of
                   Dickinson et al. [5]; nevertheless, in some cases, e.g., as in Kweon and Choi [43], a detailed
                   explanation of the used    planform
                                      comparison          is instantaneous
                                                     of the   not explicitlylift
                                                                             provided.     Figure
                                                                                 coefficient values6b shows
                                                                                                    from        the comparison
                                                                                                           our current   set-up against all
                   of the instantaneous   liftstudies.
                                      other    coefficient   values from
                                                       Furthermore,         our current
                                                                      a comparison     of heset-up  against
                                                                                              average         all other(Cstudies.
                                                                                                       lift coefficients    L ) is presented
                   Furthermore, a in      Table 3. of the average lift coefficients ( ̅ ) is presented in Table 3.
                                    comparison




                   Figure 6. (a) Fruit flyFigure
                                             wing6.planform        shape employed within the validation study. (b) Comparison
                                                       (a) Fruit fly wing planform shape employed within the validation study. (b) Comparison of
                   of the lift coefficientsthe
                                            from     the current simulation set-up against experimental (from Dickinson et al.
                                               lift coefficients from the current simulation set-up against experimental (from Dickinson et al. [5])
                   [5]) and numerical (from        Erzincanli
                                           and numerical (from    and  Sahin [44],
                                                                    Erzincanli      Kweon
                                                                               and Sahin [44],and Choi
                                                                                               Kweon and[43],
                                                                                                          Choiand
                                                                                                               [43], Sun andand
                                                                                                                     and Sun  Tang
                                                                                                                                Tang[29])
                                                                                                                                      [29]) results
                   results for advanced,forsymmetric,        and    delayed  pitching  kinematic   cases.
                                               advanced, symmetric, and delayed pitching kinematic cases.

                                     Table
                   Table 3. Comparison     3. Comparison
                                       of average        of average from
                                                  lift coefficients lift coefficients from studies
                                                                           studies used            used for validation.
                                                                                            for validation.
                                                                                             CFD,
                               Exp., Dickinson  et al.
                                            Kinematic
                                                             CFD,  Erzincanli Exp.,
                                                                CFD,
                                                                                 CFD, Kweon       and
                                                                                           Erzincanli
                                                                                                                   CFD,
                                                                                                                  CFD,    Sun and
                                                                                                                       Kweon    CFD, Sun
se   CFD, Current                                                          Dickinson                               and Choi
                                        [5]    Case          and  Sahin [44]
                                                               Current                 Choiand
                                                                                            [43]
                                                                                               Sahin                 Tang [29] and Tang
                                                                            et al. [5]                               [43]         [29]
          0.405                        0.491                      0.438                   -   [44]                        0.387
          0.340                        0.473 Advanced           0.405
                                                                  0.360       0.491     0.3230.438                      - -             0.387
                                            Symmetric           0.340         0.473          0.360                    0.323               -
          0.170                        0.237 Delayed              0.183
                                                                0.170         0.237       - 0.183                       - -               -


                         The results showThethatresults
                                                  the lift
                                                         showcoefficient
                                                               that the liftvalues    from
                                                                             coefficient    ourfrom
                                                                                         values   current   simulation
                                                                                                      our current  simulationare are
                                                                                                                                  in in very
                   very good agreementgood with    that with
                                            agreement     reported
                                                               that by    other
                                                                    reported       studies.
                                                                               by other      Only
                                                                                         studies.    minor
                                                                                                  Only  minordifferences      existbetween
                                                                                                               differences exist
                                      the different
                   between the different    CFD CFD results,results,
                                                               and andthesethese
                                                                              may maybebedue
                                                                                           duetoto slight
                                                                                                   slightdifferences
                                                                                                           differences   in in
                                                                                                                            the the
                                                                                                                                method of
                                      reproducing    the wing  planform   shape   and  kinematics adopted
                   method of reproducing the wing planform shape and kinematics adopted by each study.      by each   study.  Nevertheless,
                                      and more importantly, the trends and average values from our CFD simulation set-up
                   Nevertheless, and more importantly, the trends and average values from our CFD simu-
                                      closely follow those from the other CFD studies. Notably, all CFD results share some
                   lation set-up closely  follow against
                                      differences   those from     the other results,
                                                            the experimental     CFD studies.
                                                                                          which mayNotably,
                                                                                                      be due toallpotential
                                                                                                                   CFD results
                                                                                                                             measurement
                   share some differences    against     the  experimental      results,   which   may    be due    to  potential
                                      inaccuracies or differences in the morphology/kinematics employed. That said, it is
                   measurement inaccuracies
                                      important toornote that
                                                      differences
                                                                the in
                                                                     mainthe   morphology/kinematics
                                                                           difference between                 employed.
                                                                                                 experiments and              That results
                                                                                                                     all numerical
                   said, it is important to note that the main difference between experiments and all numer-
                   ical results always occurs at the start of half-strokes, where a noticeable peak in lift is
                   mainly seen within the advanced and symmetric pitching cases. These peaks are ex-
                   plained by Dickinson et al. [5] to be a result of the wake capture effect. However, such
Insects 2022, 13, 459                                                                                                                                 13 of 26



Insects 2022, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                                                   13 of 26
                                 always occurs at the start of half-strokes, where a noticeable peak in lift is mainly seen
                                 within the advanced and symmetric pitching cases. These peaks are explained by Dickinson
                                 et al. [5] to be a result of the wake capture effect. However, such peaks have been absent
                                  known
                                 from   CFD debates  withinand
                                              simulations,   the this
                                                                 fieldhas
                                                                        of created
                                                                           aerodynamics
                                                                                     one of of
                                                                                             theinsect
                                                                                                 most flight where debates
                                                                                                       well-known    experiments
                                                                                                                             withinshow
                                                                                                                                     the
                                 field of
                                  an       aerodynamics
                                      effect which    seemsof to
                                                              insect
                                                                 be flight
                                                                     absentwhere      experiments show
                                                                              from numerical              an effect
                                                                                                   imulations.   Forwhich
                                                                                                                      more seems   to be
                                                                                                                            discussions
                                 absent   fromdebate,
                                  about this    numerical   simulations.
                                                        the reader          For more
                                                                     is referred         discussions
                                                                                   to [29,45].         about this
                                                                                                Experimental      debate,
                                                                                                               results,   the reader
                                                                                                                        however,   showis
                                 referred
                                  less      to [29,45].
                                        evidence        Experimental
                                                   of such peaks         results, pitching
                                                                    for delayed    however, show      less and
                                                                                               kinematics,evidence
                                                                                                                 for of such
                                                                                                                     such    peaks
                                                                                                                           case,     for
                                                                                                                                 a good
                                 delayed
                                  similaritypitching
                                               between kinematics,
                                                          experimentsandand
                                                                          for such
                                                                               CFD case,    a As
                                                                                       exists. goodsuch,
                                                                                                     similarity between
                                                                                                          overall,        experiments
                                                                                                                   the qualitative   and
                                 and CFD     exists. As
                                  quantitative           such, overall,
                                                 agreement     betweenthe ourqualitative
                                                                                simulationsandand the
                                                                                                 quantitative agreement
                                                                                                         experimental     between
                                                                                                                        and          our
                                                                                                                             numerical
                                 simulations
                                  benchmarkand       the provides
                                                results  experimental    and
                                                                    confidencenumerical
                                                                                  in       benchmark results
                                                                                      the numerical             provides
                                                                                                       simulation  set-upconfidence
                                                                                                                          employed in  in
                                 the numerical
                                  this study.     simulation   set-up   employed     in this study.

                                 3.3.Results
                                     ResultsandandDiscussion
                                                   Discussion
                                 3.1. Effect of Aspect Ratio
                                  3.1. Effect of Aspect Ratio
                                       In this section, the effect of aspect ratio on aerodynamic force production is inde-
                                        In this section, the effect of aspect ratio on aerodynamic force production is inde-
                                 pendently studied. The other morphological parameters are set constant, within this
                                  pendently studied. The other morphological parameters are set constant, within this as-
                                 assessment, to their nominal values: r̂1 is set to 0.5 and the wing root offset is set to
                                  sessment, to their nominal values: ̂ is set to 0.5 and the wing root offset is set to zero, ̂
                                 zero, r̂ R = 0. Different aspect ratio values ranging between 1.5 to 7.5, with a step of 1.5,
                                  = 0.investigated.
                                 are   Different aspect  ratio7values
                                                      Figure     showsranging  between 1.5 lift
                                                                        the instantaneous    to 7.5,
                                                                                                 andwith
                                                                                                     draga step  of 1.5, are
                                                                                                            coefficients     investi-
                                                                                                                          from  this
                                  gated.   Figure
                                 assessment.      7 shows   the instantaneous  lift and drag coefficients from  this assessment.




                                  Figure 7.
                                 Figure   7. Time
                                              Timehistories
                                                   historiesofofthe liftlift
                                                                  the     and  drag
                                                                             and    coefficients
                                                                                  drag           for different
                                                                                       coefficients            aspect
                                                                                                     for different    ratios.ratios.
                                                                                                                   aspect      The non-dimen-
                                                                                                                                     The non-
                                  sional radial centroid location is set to 0.5 and the wing root offset to zero.
                                 dimensional radial centroid location is set to 0.5 and the wing root offset to zero.

                                       Thelift
                                       The    liftand
                                                   anddrag
                                                         dragcoefficient
                                                                 coefficienttimetimehistories
                                                                                       historiesshow showlarge
                                                                                                             largetransient
                                                                                                                     transientpeaks
                                                                                                                                  peaksforforthethelowest
                                                                                                                                                      lowest
                                  aspect   ratio   case  (      =  1.5),  which    differs   from     other   aspect    ratios
                                 aspect ratio case (AR = 1.5), which differs from other aspect ratios whose transient force     whose    transient       force
                                  coefficient peaks
                                 coefficient     peaks near
                                                          near the
                                                                 the start
                                                                        start of
                                                                               ofaahalf-stroke
                                                                                    half-strokeare    areless
                                                                                                           lessnoticeable
                                                                                                                 noticeableand  andhave
                                                                                                                                      haveno  noobvious
                                                                                                                                                   obvious
                                  peaksnear
                                 peaks    nearthe thendend of of  half-strokes.
                                                              half-strokes.         However,
                                                                                However,            theand
                                                                                              the lift   lift and
                                                                                                              drag drag     coefficients
                                                                                                                     coefficients   at midat mid
                                                                                                                                              half–strokehalf–
                                  stroke   is  lower    for  the         =  1.5  case,  compared        with    higher
                                 is lower for the AR = 1.5 case, compared with higher aspect ratio cases. In fact, higher aspect   ratio  cases.     In   fact,
                                  higher   aspect    ratios   show     faster  increase    of  lift  coefficient   at  the  beginning
                                 aspect ratios show faster increase of lift coefficient at the beginning of the translational             of  the   transla-
                                  tional phase.
                                 phase.   After the Aftermid the   mid half-stroke,
                                                               half-stroke,      for ARfor  = 1.5 to= 3,1.5lift
                                                                                                             to coefficient
                                                                                                                 3, lift coefficient   continues
                                                                                                                               continues                to in-
                                                                                                                                              to increase
                                  crease
                                 until enduntil   end of the
                                              of the              translational
                                                      translational                 phase, for
                                                                         phase, whereas,      whereas,
                                                                                                     aspectfor   aspect
                                                                                                              ratios      ratios
                                                                                                                      greater     greater
                                                                                                                                than         than
                                                                                                                                      4.5, lift   and4.5,
                                                                                                                                                        draglift
                                  and  drag remain
                                 coefficients  coefficients    remainconstant
                                                            relatively     relativelyor start
                                                                                        constant to or   start to decrease.
                                                                                                      decrease.
                                       Theflow
                                       The    flowstructures
                                                      structuresforfor  thethe  different
                                                                             different      aspect
                                                                                         aspect        ratio
                                                                                                   ratio cases cases
                                                                                                                 (AR( = =      1.5–7.5,
                                                                                                                          1.5–7.5,  exceptexcept
                                                                                                                                              for AR for= 3,
                                  = 3, which
                                 which   has beenhas been     comprehensively
                                                       comprehensively                 shown
                                                                                shown in          in 5)
                                                                                             Figure   Figure
                                                                                                           near 5)the
                                                                                                                   near   the mid
                                                                                                                        mid          half-stroke
                                                                                                                             half-stroke                  4.8) ̂
                                                                                                                                                       (i.e.,
                                                                                                                                             (i.e., t̂ =
                                  = 4.8) is  shown      in  Figure    8a,   whereas     the  sectional     vortical    structures
                                 is shown in Figure 8a, whereas the sectional vortical structures together with the surface          together      with    the
                                  surface fields
                                 pressure   pressure at fields
                                                         different at time
                                                                       different   time along
                                                                             instances     instancesthe along     the (i.e., t̂
                                                                                                        half-stroke     half-stroke             ̂
                                                                                                                                       (i.e.,and=5.0)
                                                                                                                                = 4.6, 4.8           4.6,are4.8
                                  and
                                 shown 5.0)
                                          inare    shown
                                              Figure    8b. in Figure 8b.
           Insects 2022, 13, 459                                                                                                                14 of 26
2, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                                         14 of 26




                             Figure 8. Flow structures at different time instances for the different aspect ratio cases. (a) Flow
                                              Figure 8. Flow structures at different time instances for the different aspect ratio cases. (a) Flow
                             structure near mid-stroke ( ̂ = 4.8), (b) Sectional vortical structure and surface pressure field near
                                              structure
                             the beginning, near              and at the(t̂end
                                                        near mid-stroke
                                                 the middle,                = 4.8), (b) Sectional
                                                                                of the            vortical structure and surface pressure field near the
                                                                                        half-stroke.
                                               beginning, near the middle, and at the end of the half-stroke.
                                  Comparing the flow structures for the different aspect ratio cases, it can be seen that
                             for the lower aspect ratio cases, the LEV is more closely attached to the wing surface,
                             whereas the LEV becomes more distant from the wing surface as the aspect ratio increases.
                             For low aspect ratios, the LEV gets merged with the tip vortex and shed downstream,
                             whereas for high aspect ratios, the LEV starts to get detached from the wing surface near
Insects 2022, 13, 459                                                                                              15 of 26




                             Comparing the flow structures for the different aspect ratio cases, it can be seen that for
                        the lower aspect ratio cases, the LEV is more closely attached to the wing surface, whereas
                        the LEV becomes more distant from the wing surface as the aspect ratio increases. For low
                        aspect ratios, the LEV gets merged with the tip vortex and shed downstream, whereas for
                        high aspect ratios, the LEV starts to get detached from the wing surface near the wing tip.
                        In this study, the LEV detachment location is approximately identified at the location where
                        a local TEV is initiated. This is because when the LEV detaches from the wing surface, a
                        TEV is formed due to flow reversal around the trailing-edge, as shown in [46,47]. Note
                        that this criterion has been employed for identifying LEV detachment location in other
                        studies, e.g., [20]. It is found that the detachment location moves slightly further away
                        from the wing root as aspect ratio increases but remains at approximately r/c = 3.5–5.0 for
                        the different aspect ratios. However, as aspect ratio increases, the LEV detachment area
                        near the wing tip increases; it is therefore likely that the detachment of the LEV in that
                        region leads to the relatively constant/reduced lift and drag coefficient after mid half-stroke
                        for aspect ratio greater than 4.5. Notably, the current results agree with the experimental
                        study of Kruyt et al. [24], which showed that the detachment of LEV or ‘stall’ location was
                        found at r/c = 4.0. However, in their experiment, a steady revolving wing was employed,
                        whereas in the current flapping wing case, the wing experiences cyclic formation of LEV
                        within each half-stroke.
                             For aspect ratios greater than 4.5, at the end of the half-stroke, i.e., t̂ = 5.0, an obvious
                        high-pressure region is evident on the outboard region of the wing. The high pressure is
                        related to the LEV-TEV pair, which can be clearly seen from Figure 8b for AR = 4.5–7.5. We
                        note here that this high-pressure region resulting from the LEV-TEV pair in the wake of high
                        aspect ratio wings may be significant for determining the wake capture force contribution
                        in the subsequent half-stroke.

                        3.2. Effect of Radial Centroid Location
                              The effect of radial centroid location on the force production and flow structure
                        evolution is studied in this section. Here, the lowest aspect ratio (AR = 1.5), the highest
                        aspect ratio (AR = 7.5), and a representative aspect ratio for most insect wings (AR = 3)
                        are used to study the effect of r̂1 . The remaining two aspect ratio cases are not included in
                        this section to avoid excessive discussions, but their average results will be shown later
                        in the paper. Here, the wing root offset is also set to zero, as it is most representative for
                        typical real insects (note that the wing offset is usually a consequence of mechanical design
                        constraints of flapping wing rigs or robotic insects, but is not common in real insects).
                        Nonetheless, its effect will be discussed in the next section. The instantaneous values of the
                        lift and drag coefficients are shown in Figure 9.
                              For the smallest aspect ratio case (AR = 1.5), changing r̂1 shows larger influence on
                        the transient peaks of lift and drag coefficients near the beginning and end of a half-stroke:
                        the peaks of the lift and drag coefficients reduce with the increase of r̂1 , indicating reduced
                        contribution of wing pitching rotation to force production as r̂1 increases. For the other
                        aspect ratio cases (e.g., AR = 3 and 7.5), varying r̂1 mostly influence the coefficient values
                        near the beginning of the half-stroke. For AR = 3, increasing r̂1 is found to reduce lift and
                        drag coefficients. The reduction of lift and drag coefficients is most significant in the first
                        part of the half-stroke, between t̂ = 4.6–4.8. However, the lift coefficient values, for the
                        different r̂1 cases, reach similar values near the end of the half-stroke. Similarly, the drag
                        coefficient for the different r̂1 cases become closer towards the end of a half-stroke, but not
                        as close as in the lift coefficient case. For AR = 7.5, higher r̂1 leads to higher lift coefficient
                        values and a noticeable peak is evident for the r̂1 = 0.6 case at t̂ = 4.15 and 4.65. On the
                        other hand, the drag coefficient values for the r̂1 = 0.6 case are lower than the smaller r̂1
                        cases, except at t̂ = 4.15 and 4.65.
Insects  2022,13,
 Insects2022,  13,459
                   x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                                                     16
                                                                                                                                                         16 of
                                                                                                                                                            of2626




                                  Figure9.9.Time
                                 Figure      Timehistories
                                                   historiesofofthe
                                                                 thelift
                                                                      liftand
                                                                           anddrag
                                                                               dragcoefficients
                                                                                    coefficientsfor
                                                                                                 fordifferent
                                                                                                     differentradial
                                                                                                               radialcentroid
                                                                                                                      centroidlocations
                                                                                                                               locationsand
                                                                                                                                         and
                                  three different aspect ratios. Wing root offset is set to zero in this demonstration.
                                 three different aspect ratios. Wing root offset is et o zero in this demonstration.

                                         Theflow
                                       The      flowstructures
                                                        structuresfor   forthe
                                                                            thetwo
                                                                                 twoextreme
                                                                                       extremecases
                                                                                                  caseswith withr̂ ̂ ==0.4   0.4and
                                                                                                                                  and0.60.6atatdifferent
                                                                                                                                                differentaspect
                                                                                                                                                            aspect
                                                                                                                     1
                                  ratios   (      =  1.5,  3,  and   7.5)  near   the   mid   half-stroke       (i.e.,   ̂  = 4.8)
                                 ratios (AR = 1.5, 3, and 7.5) near the mid half-stroke (i.e., t̂ = 4.8) are shown in Figure 10.    are   shown     in Figure   10.
                                  Thesectional
                                 The    sectionalvortical
                                                       vorticalstructures
                                                                   structuresand andsurface
                                                                                       surfacepressure
                                                                                                 pressuredistributions
                                                                                                                distributionsfor    forthethedifferent
                                                                                                                                               differentcases
                                                                                                                                                           casesatat
                                  differenttime
                                 different      timeinstances
                                                        instances along
                                                                      along the     half-stroke ((t̂ ̂ == 4.6,
                                                                              the half-stroke              4.6, 4.8,
                                                                                                                 4.8, and
                                                                                                                       and 5.0)5.0) are
                                                                                                                                     areshown
                                                                                                                                           shownin  inFigure
                                                                                                                                                        Figure11.11.
                                  When      increasing        the  radial   centroid     location,    the    wing     chord
                                 When increasing the radial centroid location, the wing chord becomes larger at the outboard     becomes      larger   at the  out-
                                  board of
                                 section   section
                                               the wing.of the    wing.
                                                               Since   theSince    the LEV detaches
                                                                            LEV typically      typically from detaches
                                                                                                                     the wingfromsurface
                                                                                                                                     the wing  whensurface   when
                                                                                                                                                      the vortex
                                  the  vortex      boundary        reaches     the  trailing-edge       [47],   this   would
                                 boundary reaches the trailing-edge [47], this would result in different vortex formation         result    in  different   vortex
                                  formation
                                 time   for wings  timewithfor wings      with
                                                                  different      different ̂
                                                                              r̂1 values.    From values.
                                                                                                       Figure   From    Figure
                                                                                                                   11, it is        11, it is
                                                                                                                               evident      thatevident    that r̂1
                                                                                                                                                  increasing     in-
                                  creasing
                                 results   in â delayed
                                                     results in a     delayedand
                                                                 formation        formation
                                                                                       thus and
                                                                                              delayed   thus    delayed of
                                                                                                            detachment        detachment
                                                                                                                                    LEV near    of the
                                                                                                                                                   LEV near
                                                                                                                                                        wingtip,the
                                  wingtip,
                                 due   to thedue to
                                                  increasedthe local
                                                                 increased
                                                                         chord local  chord
                                                                                  length       length
                                                                                            at the   wing  at the   wing outboard
                                                                                                                outboard                    section.
                                                                                                                                section. This          Thisis less
                                                                                                                                                   effect    effect
                                  is less for
                                 obvious   obvious the for     the aspect
                                                         smallest   smallestratioaspect   ratio
                                                                                      wing,      wing,
                                                                                              AR =      1.5, since= 1.5,
                                                                                                                      for since
                                                                                                                            such afor    such
                                                                                                                                      case,  thea LEV
                                                                                                                                                   case, the  LEV
                                                                                                                                                         remains
                                 attached throughout the stroke. For AR = 3.0, the early formation of the LEV at lower r̂1at
                                  remains      attached       throughout       the  stroke.   For           =  3.0,  the    early  formation       of the   LEV
                                  lower in̂ higher
                                 results         results in      higher
                                                            lift and      lift and
                                                                        drag          drag at
                                                                               coefficients  coefficients
                                                                                                  early at          early t̂ =
                                                                                                             half-stroke,             4.1–4.25̂ =and
                                                                                                                             half-stroke,           4.1–4.25   and
                                                                                                                                                        4.6–4.75;
                                  4.6–4.75; the
                                 however,       however,
                                                      lift      the  lift finally
                                                           coefficients   coefficients    finally
                                                                                      reach        reach
                                                                                              similar          similar
                                                                                                           values          values at
                                                                                                                      at later           later see
                                                                                                                                  half-stroke,   half-stroke,
                                                                                                                                                        Figuresee 9.
                                 For  AR =
                                  Figure     9. 7.5,
                                                 Fordue to       the due to
                                                              = 7.5,  detachmentthe of the
                                                                                     detachment LEVof    onthetheLEVoutboard
                                                                                                                           on thesection
                                                                                                                                     outboard of the   wing,ofthe
                                                                                                                                                   section      the
                                 delayedthe
                                  wing,       formation
                                                  delayed of the
                                                               formation LEVofatthe    LEV r̂at
                                                                                   higher     1 allows
                                                                                                 higher the    ̂ allows
                                                                                                                   wings to   thesustain
                                                                                                                                   wings to  greater
                                                                                                                                                 sustainvorticity
                                                                                                                                                           greater
                                 before   the LEV
                                  vorticity             detaches,
                                                before the      LEV and      this leads
                                                                       detaches,     and to   higher
                                                                                           this leadslift     coefficients
                                                                                                          to higher     lift at the      earlyat the
                                                                                                                              coefficients       half-stroke,   as
                                                                                                                                                       early half-
                                 shown     in  Figure      9.
                                  stroke, as shown in Figure 9.
Insects 2022, 13,13,
   Insects
                  459                                                                                                                               17 of 26
    Insects2022,
           2022, 13,xxFOR
                      FORPEER
                          PEERREVIEW
                              REVIEW                                                                                                          17
                                                                                                                                              17 of
                                                                                                                                                 of 26
                                                                                                                                                    26




                                  Figure
                                  Figure10.
                                 Figure    10.  Flow  structures  near  mid
                                                                  nearmid
                                                      structuresnear
                                                Flowstructures
                                           10.Flow                           half-stroke (((t̂ ̂ ̂ ===4.8)
                                                                            half-stroke
                                                                         midhalf-stroke               4.8)  for
                                                                                                       4.8)for   radial
                                                                                                             forradial  centroid
                                                                                                                  radialcentroid  location
                                                                                                                         centroidlocation   values
                                                                                                                                   location values  of
                                                                                                                                             values of 0.4
                                                                                                                                                    of0.4
                                                                                                                                                       0.4and
                                  and
                                  and 0.6  at  different aspect ratios.
                                 0.6 at 0.6 at different
                                        different        aspect
                                                    aspect       ratios.
                                                            ratios.




                                  Figure
                                  Figure11.
                                 Figure   11.Sectional
                                         11.  Sectionalvortical
                                              Sectional vortical structures
                                                                 structures
                                                          vortical  structures and  surface
                                                                                andand
                                                                                     surface  pressure
                                                                                              pressure
                                                                                          surface               fieldsthe
                                                                                                         fieldsnear
                                                                                                        fields
                                                                                                    pressure     near  the  beginning,
                                                                                                                            beginning,
                                                                                                                         near   the       nearthe
                                                                                                                                          near
                                                                                                                                       beginning,themid-
                                                                                                                                                     mid- the
                                                                                                                                                     near
                                  dle,
                                  dle, and at
                                       andand end
                                           at end  of half-stroke for  ̂  = 0.4
                                                                   for ̂for= r̂0.4 and
                                                                                   and  0.6
                                                                                        0.6 cases.
                                                                                            cases. (a)
                                                                                                    (a)     == 1.5,
                                                                                                               1.5, (b)
                                                                                                                     (b)      =
                                                                                                                              = 3,
                                                                                                                                 3, (c)
                                                                                                                                     (c)     == 7.5.
                                                                                                                                                7.5.
                                 middle,       at of  half-stroke
                                                  end of   half-stroke          1 = 0.4 and   0.6 cases.  (a)  AR   =  1.5, (b)  AR    = 3, (c)  AR  = 7.5.
2, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                                                 18 of 26
           Insects 2022, 13, 459                                                                                                                        18 of 26



                             3.3. Effect of Root Offset
                                                3.3. Effect of Root Offset
                                   The effect of root offset on the force production and flow structures is presented in
                                                    The effect of root offset on the force production and flow structures is presented in
                             this section. Here,
                                              thisagain,
                                                   section.  the  lowest
                                                                Here,      aspect
                                                                       again,      ratio ( aspect
                                                                              the lowest         = 1.5),
                                                                                                    ratiothe
                                                                                                           (ARhighest
                                                                                                                  = 1.5),aspect   ratio aspect
                                                                                                                          the highest    (     = ratio (AR =
                             7.5), and a representative       aspect  ratio for most   insect   wings    (      =  3) are used   to study
                                              7.5), and a representative aspect ratio for most insect wings (AR = 3) are used to study the   the
                             effect of ̂ . Only  theof
                                              effect  baseline
                                                        r̂ R . Only wing   planform
                                                                      the baseline     centroid
                                                                                    wing   planformlocation,
                                                                                                         centroid ̂ =location,
                                                                                                                       0.5, is considered     to
                                                                                                                                r̂1 = 0.5, is considered  to
                             avoid any mixed    effects—it
                                              avoid  any mixed  is more   convenient
                                                                     effects—it  is moreto change
                                                                                          convenient  onlyto one
                                                                                                             change parameter
                                                                                                                       only oneat a   time forat a time for
                                                                                                                                   parameter
                             better assessment   of the
                                              better      outputs.ofThe
                                                     assessment             instantaneous
                                                                         the outputs.   The lift and     drag lift and
                                                                                             instantaneous       coefficient
                                                                                                                          dragvalues    for he
                                                                                                                                coefficient   values for the
                             different ̂ cases    at
                                              different  r̂ R= 1.5,
                                                               cases3,atand 7.51.5,
                                                                         AR =   are3, and
                                                                                     shown  7.5inare
                                                                                                   Figure
                                                                                                     shown  12.in Figure 12.




                             Figure 12. Time histories of the lift and drag coefficients for the different wing root offset cases at
                                               Figure 12. Time histories of the lift and drag coefficients for the different wing root offset cases at
                             three aspect ratios.
                                                three aspect ratios.

                                   Similar to the cases
                                                     Similarof to the    cases ̂of, Figure
                                                                 increasing                  12 r̂1 ,
                                                                                    increasing   shows    that12for
                                                                                                      Figure          the that
                                                                                                                   shows   smallest  aspect
                                                                                                                                for the      ratioaspect ratio
                                                                                                                                          smallest
                             wing case (       =  1.5),case (AR
                                               wing      increasing      wing root
                                                                    = 1.5),   increasingoffset
                                                                                            wingleads
                                                                                                   roottoffset
                                                                                                            reduced
                                                                                                                 leadsor  toalmost   diminished
                                                                                                                             reduced or    almost diminished
                             initial and end initial
                                               peaks forand the
                                                             endlift   andfor
                                                                    peaks      drag   coefficients,
                                                                                  the lift and  dragindicating
                                                                                                       coefficients,  reduced   contribution
                                                                                                                        indicating   reduced ofcontribution of
                             the wing pitching the wing     pitching
                                                   rotation to     forcerotation           as ̂
                                                                                    to force
                                                                            production        production
                                                                                                   increases.as r̂ R
                                                                                                                 Asincreases.
                                                                                                                       evident As
                                                                                                                                fromevident    from Figure 12,
                                                                                                                                        Figure 12,
                             varying the wing  varying
                                                   root the     wing
                                                           offset     root
                                                                    has       offset has
                                                                            greater       greater on
                                                                                     influence    influence
                                                                                                       force on force
                                                                                                                production production
                                                                                                                               within thewithin the later phase
                                                                                                                                              later
                                                              ̂
                             phase of the half-stroke ( = 4.2–4.4 and 4.7–4.9) for all aspect ratios. In fact, when ̂ in-r̂ R increases,
                                               of the   half-stroke    ( t̂ = 4.2–4.4  and   4.7–4.9)   for all aspect    ratios. In fact, when
                             creases, the lift the
                                               andlift
                                                     dragandcoefficients
                                                                drag coefficients
                                                                               within within  this latter
                                                                                         this latter  phase phase
                                                                                                               of theof the half-stroke
                                                                                                                         half-stroke      reduce
                                                                                                                                       reduce   forfor all aspect
                                               ratio
                             all aspect ratio cases. cases.
                                   The flow structures for the two extreme cases with ̂ = 1 and 3 at different aspect
                             ratios (    = 1.5, 3, and 7.5) near the mid half-stroke (i.e., ̂ = 4.8) are shown in Figure 13.
          Insects 2022, 13, 459                                                                                                           19 of 26




                                         The flow structures for the two extreme cases with r̂ R = 1 and 3 at different aspect
                                   ratios (AR = 1.5, 3, and 7.5) near the mid half-stroke (i.e., t̂ = 4.8) are shown in Figure 13. The
                                   sectional vortical structures and surface pressure distributions for the same cases at different
FOR PEER REVIEW
                                   time instances along the half-stroke (t̂ = 4.6, 4.8 and 5.0) are shown in Figure               14. Note that
                                                                                                                               19 of 26
                                   zero-wing root offset cases can be found in Figures 5 and 8. From Figures 13 and 14, for
                                   all aspect ratios, increasing the wing root offset results in an increased LEV size on the
                                   inboard section of the wing near the mid half-stroke (t̂ = 4.8); however, at the same time, the
                                   detachment
               The sectional vortical            location
                                         structures    andofsurface
                                                               the LEVpressure
                                                                         is moved distributions
                                                                                    inboard, resulting forinthe
                                                                                                              larger
                                                                                                                  sameoutboardcases wing
                                                                                                                                       at area
                                   experiencing a detached LEV. For        AR = 1.5, no  detachment     of the LEV   at  t̂   = 4.8 is  found for
               different time instances along the half-stroke ( ̂ = 4.6, 4.8 and 5.0) are shown in Figure 14. Note
                                   the zero-wing root offset case, as previously demonstrated in Figure 8b, but for the r̂ R = 3
               that zero-wing rootcase,
                                     offset cases canof
                                          detachment     beLEV
                                                             found
                                                                 nearinthe
                                                                         Figures
                                                                            wingtip5 and     8. From
                                                                                      is evident       Figuresin13Figure
                                                                                                   as shown          and 14,    14a.for Similarly,
               all aspect ratios, for
                                  increasing
                                       AR = 3.0,thethewing
                                                       LEV isroot   offseton the
                                                                detached     results in
                                                                                  outboard  an section
                                                                                                increased     LEV
                                                                                                         of the  wingsize
                                                                                                                        for on  the r̂the
                                                                                                                                       R = 3 case,
               inboard section of the    wingin a
                                   resulting    near   the mid
                                                    reverse       half-stroke
                                                            conical-shaped       (̂ =
                                                                               LEV      4.8);
                                                                                     with       however,
                                                                                            smaller  size atat  the
                                                                                                              the    same For
                                                                                                                   wingtip.      time,  AR = 7.5,
                                   when r̂ Rof= 1,
               the detachment location         thethe  LEV
                                                     LEV      detachment
                                                           is moved         location is
                                                                         inboard,         moved in
                                                                                     resulting     inboard
                                                                                                      larger(Figure
                                                                                                                outboard14c), wingcompared to
                                   the  zero-wing
               area experiencing a detached LEV. For root offset case                                                       ̂
                                                                      = 1.5, no detachment of the LEV at = 4.8r̂ Ris= 3 case,
                                                                       (Figure  8b),  at t̂ = 4.8; whereas    for the  largest
                                   the detachment of the LEV is almost extended to the whole wing at t̂ = 4.8 (Figure 14c).
               found for the zero-wing root offset case, as previously demonstrated in Figure 8b, but for
                                   The larger flow detachment area at higher r̂ R during the later half-stroke (t̂ = 4.2–4.4 and
               the ̂ = 3 case, detachment        of in
                                   4.7–4.9) results   LEV
                                                        the near
                                                            reducedthelift
                                                                        wingtip
                                                                           and dragiscoefficients,
                                                                                       evident asasshownshown in in Figure
                                                                                                                     Figure12.14a.
                     Similarly, for      = 3.0, the LEV is detached on the outboard section of the wing for the
                      ̂ = 3 case, resulting
                                         3.4.in a
                                              Average Force Production
                                                  reverse  conical-shapedand LEV
                                                                             Aerodynamic
                                                                                      withEfficiency
                                                                                           smaller size at the wingtip. For
                                         3.4.1. Average  Coefficients  for Different
                         = 7.5, when ̂ = 1, the LEV detachment location is moved     Aspect  Ratio and Radial
                                                                                                 inboard        Centroid
                                                                                                           (Figure   14c),Locations
                                                                                                                            com-
                     pared to the zero-wing root offset case (Figure 8b), at ̂ = 4.8; whereas for the largest simulated
                                               To further assess the  aerodynamic    performance    of the different wings    ̂ =        in
                                         this study, the average lift and drag coefficients, C L and C D , and the  power   factor, P , are
                     3 case, the detachment of the LEV is almost extended to the whole wing at ̂ = 4.8 (Figure f
                                         investigated against the different morphological parameters. Figure 15 shows the variation
                     14c). The larger flow   detachment
                                         of the             area at higher
                                                average aerodynamic             ̂ duringversus
                                                                          characteristics  the later
                                                                                                  winghalf-stroke
                                                                                                                      ̂ = 4.2–4.4
                                                                                                        aspect ratio(and  radial centroid
                     and 4.7–4.9) results in the for
                                         location reduced  lift and
                                                      zero-wing  rootdrag   coefficients, as shown in Figure 12.
                                                                        offset.




                     Figure 13. Flow structures  near
                                         Figure 13.    mid
                                                    Flow    half-stroke
                                                         structures      ( ̂ = half-stroke
                                                                    near mid   4.8) for ̂ (t̂ == 14.8)
                                                                                                    andfor3r̂ Rcases at different
                                                                                                                = 1 and            aspect aspect
                                                                                                                        3 cases at different
                     ratios.             ratios.
, x FOR PEER   REVIEW
         Insects 2022, 13, 459                                                                                                        20 of 26     20 of 26




                        Figure 14. SectionalFigure       Sectional vortical
                                                    14. structures
                                              vortical                      structures
                                                                   and surface         and fields
                                                                                 pressure      surfacenear
                                                                                                       pressure   fields nearnear
                                                                                                           the beginning,       the beginning,
                                                                                                                                    the mid- near the
                        dle, and at the endmiddle,   and at the end
                                             of the half-stroke  forof the
                                                                       ̂ =half-stroke for r̂ R(a)
                                                                            1 and 3 cases.      = 1 and=31.5, (b)(a) AR==3,1.5,
                                                                                                         cases.              (c)(b) AR= =7.5.
                                                                                                                                           3, (c) AR = 7.5.


                        3.4. Average Force Production and Aerodynamic Efficiency
                        3.4.1. Average Coefficients for Different Aspect Ratio and Radial Centroid Locations
                              To further assess the aerodynamic performance of the different wings simulated in
                        this study, the average lift and drag coefficients, ̅ and ̅ , and the power factor, , are
                        investigated against the different morphological parameters. Figure 15 shows the varia-
                        tion of the average aerodynamic characteristics versus wing aspect ratio and radial cen-
                        troid location for zero-wing root offset.
Insects 2022, 13, 459                                                                                                                                             21 of 26
 Insects 2022, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                                                              21 of 26




                                  Figure15.
                                 Figure   15.Average
                                              Averagelift
                                                       liftand
                                                            anddrag
                                                                drag  coefficients
                                                                    coefficients as as well
                                                                                    well as as aerodynamic
                                                                                            aerodynamic     efficiency
                                                                                                        efficiency     (measured
                                                                                                                    (measured in in terms
                                                                                                                                terms  of
                                  of the proposed power factor) variations against: (a) aspect ratio for different radial centroid loca-
                                 the proposed power factor) variations against: (a) aspect ratio for different radial centroid locations,
                                  tions, and (b) radial centroid locations for different aspect ratios.
                                 and (b) radial centroid locations for different aspect ratios.

                                         FromFigure
                                        From      Figure15a,   15a,with
                                                                     withthe  theincrease
                                                                                    increaseofofaspect aspectratio,  ratio,thetheaverage
                                                                                                                                   averagelift liftcoefficient
                                                                                                                                                       coefficientfirst first
                                   increases    until     it reaches     the   maximum          value        and     then
                                 increases until it reaches the maximum value and then starts to decrease. However, the     starts   to  decrease.       However,        the
                                   larger   the  radial      centroid     location,     the   peak        lift  coefficient
                                 larger the radial centroid location, the peak lift coefficient gets delayed to higher aspect   gets   delayed     to    higher      aspect
                                   ratios:For
                                 ratios:    Forr̂1 =̂ =0.4,0.4, the
                                                              the    maximum
                                                                  maximum             average
                                                                                   average      liftlift     coefficient
                                                                                                      coefficient             occurs
                                                                                                                         occurs    at ARat = 4.5;= 4.5;
                                                                                                                                                      for r̂for     ̂ = 0.5,
                                                                                                                                                             1 = 0.5, the
                                   the maximum          average     lift  coefficient       occurs     at           = 4.5–6;
                                 maximum average lift coefficient occurs at AR = 4.5–6; whereas, for r̂1 = 0.6, the maximum     whereas,    for     ̂   = 0.6,   the   max-
                                   imum lift
                                 average    average      lift coefficient
                                                 coefficient      occurs atoccursAR = at  6. The = 6.averageThe dragaverage     drag first
                                                                                                                            coefficientcoefficient      first decreases
                                                                                                                                                 decreases        rapidly
                                   rapidly
                                 with   the with
                                             increase  theofincrease
                                                               aspect of        aspect
                                                                         ratio for    AR =  ratio    for but =
                                                                                                1.5–3,             then1.5–3,   but then
                                                                                                                          decreases           decreases
                                                                                                                                         slowly at      higher  slowly
                                                                                                                                                                   aspectat
                                   higherAR
                                 ratios,     aspect     ratios,
                                                 = 3–7.5.      This =       3–7.5. This
                                                                     variation                variation
                                                                                     trend is the          same  trend
                                                                                                                     for is
                                                                                                                          allthe   same for
                                                                                                                               radial   centroidall radial
                                                                                                                                                       locations. centroid
                                                                                                                                                                       The
                                   locations.    The     aerodynamic          efficiency      follows         a   similar    trend
                                 aerodynamic efficiency follows a similar trend as that of the average lift coefficient; however,     as  that  of    the    average      lift
                                   coefficient;     however,       less   variation      of         is  found        for  aspect
                                 less variation of Pf is found for aspect ratios between 4.5 and 7.5 when compared with the         ratios   between         4.5   and    7.5
                                   when    compared
                                 corresponding               with theof the
                                                       variations        corresponding
                                                                                 average lift    variations
                                                                                                     coefficient.    of the average lift coefficient.
                                         Figure15b
                                        Figure      15bisisanother
                                                              another  way way ofof   demonstrating
                                                                                  demonstrating              thethe    results
                                                                                                                   results   in in   Figure
                                                                                                                                 Figure   15a;15a;
                                                                                                                                                however,however,       plot-
                                                                                                                                                                 plotting
                                   ting it
                                 it in thatinway
                                              that way
                                                     allows   allows
                                                                betterbetter
                                                                         exposureexposure
                                                                                        of theof  r̂1the
                                                                                                       effect.  ̂ The
                                                                                                                   effect.results
                                                                                                                            The results     showwhen
                                                                                                                                    show that         that when
                                                                                                                                                              compared com-
                                 topared
                                     the to    the ratio
                                           aspect    aspecteffect,       1 has ̂
                                                                ratio r̂effect,        has relatively
                                                                                  relatively       less less           influence
                                                                                                            influence on        the on the
                                                                                                                                      lift/draglift/drag       coefficient
                                                                                                                                                      coefficient      and
                                 efficiency.
                                   and           The The
                                        efficiency.      variation     of lift
                                                                variation        coefficient
                                                                              of lift coefficient   with   withr̂1 iŝ is
                                                                                                                       dependent
                                                                                                                           dependent    ononthetheaspect
                                                                                                                                                       aspectratio,
                                                                                                                                                                 ratio,forfor
                                 AR ==1.5–3,         increasingr̂1 ̂ tends
                                           1.5–3,increasing                tendstotodecrease
                                                                                         decreaseaverage   averagelift  liftcoefficient;
                                                                                                                              coefficient;for forAR ==4.5–6,    4.5–6,thethe
                                 highest
                                   highestlift
                                             liftisisfound
                                                      found at     intermediate r̂1̂ ofof0.5;
                                                                at intermediate                  0.5;for  for AR ==7.5,        increasing r̂1 ̂ tends
                                                                                                                         7.5,increasing            tendstotoincrease
                                                                                                                                                                  increase
                                 average
                                   averageliftliftcoefficient.
                                                    coefficient.   OnOn thethe other
                                                                                  otherhand,     thethe
                                                                                             hand,     average average dragdrag
                                                                                                                              coefficient    reduces
                                                                                                                                    coefficient           consistently
                                                                                                                                                    reduces        consist-
                                            for all̂ for
                                   entlyr̂1with
                                 with                 aspect allratio
                                                                 aspectcases,
                                                                            ratiowhich       generally
                                                                                   cases, which                results in a
                                                                                                           generally            consistently
                                                                                                                          results in a            increasing
                                                                                                                                          consistently               trend
                                                                                                                                                               increasing
                                 for  efficiency
                                   trend   for       P
                                                efficiency
                                                       f  with   the  increase
                                                                     with    the     of r̂
                                                                                   increase1 for  most
                                                                                                 of     ̂    aspect
                                                                                                             for   most ratios.
                                                                                                                           aspect    ratios.
Insects 2022, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                                                22 of 26
Insects 2022, 13, 459                                                                                                                            22 of 26


                                        Overall, the main outcome of this assessment is that very low aspect ratios (i.e.,                           =
                                  1.5) Overall,
                                       are verytheinefficient   aerodynamically,      whereas    high   aspect   ratios   (i.e.,
                                                     main outcome of this assessment is that very low aspect ratios (i.e., AR = 1.5)   ≥  6)  do  not
                                  leadvery
                                 are    to a clear  improvement
                                            inefficient              in aerodynamic
                                                          aerodynamically,              performance
                                                                                whereas high      aspect and    are(i.e.,
                                                                                                           ratios    moreAR   prone
                                                                                                                                  ≥ 6)todo  tipnot
                                                                                                                                                stall.
                                  Moreover,
                                 lead to  a clearhigher    aspect in
                                                   improvement     ratio wing   is not favorable
                                                                       aerodynamic     performance   from
                                                                                                        anda are
                                                                                                             structural
                                                                                                                   more pronepoint to of tip
                                                                                                                                          view    due
                                                                                                                                              stall.
                                 Moreover, a
                                  to the        higher
                                         increased       aspecteffects
                                                      inertial   ratio wing  is not
                                                                        whilst      favorable
                                                                                flapping        from a
                                                                                          [48]. As       structural
                                                                                                      such it  seemspoint
                                                                                                                        that oftheview due
                                                                                                                                    intermediate to
                                 the  increased
                                  aspect          inertial
                                          ratio range   ( effects    whilst
                                                              = 3–4.5)      flapping
                                                                        provides   the [48]. As such it seems
                                                                                       best compromise.             that the
                                                                                                               As such,     it isintermediate
                                                                                                                                  not surprising
                                 aspect  ratio  range  (AR   =  3–4.5) provides   the best compromise.      As
                                  to see most insects’ wing aspect ratios clustered within this range [48]. On   such,   it is not
                                                                                                                                 thesurprising
                                                                                                                                      other hand,
                                 to seecurrent
                                  the    most insects’
                                                 resultswing
                                                          showaspect    ratios
                                                                  that the     clustered
                                                                            radial        within
                                                                                    centroid        this range
                                                                                               location          [48]. On
                                                                                                           has less           the other
                                                                                                                       influence       when  hand,
                                                                                                                                                com-
                                 the  current
                                  pared        resultsratio
                                          to aspect    showfor that
                                                                 thethe radial centroid
                                                                      Reynolds    number location    has less(
                                                                                            investigated       influence
                                                                                                                   =  100),when       compared
                                                                                                                              i.e., whilst     it still
                                 to
                                  hasaspect  ratio foreffect
                                       a noticeable     the Reynolds     number investigated
                                                              on the aerodynamic                    (Re = its
                                                                                       characteristics,    100),  i.e.,
                                                                                                               role  canwhilst
                                                                                                                            be seenit still  has a of
                                                                                                                                       as more
                                 noticeable   effect on  the
                                  a tuner to the performance.aerodynamic      characteristics,  its role can   be seen   as  more     of  a  tuner
                                 to the performance.
                                  3.4.2. Average Coefficients for Different Aspect Ratio and Wing Root Offset
                                 3.4.2. Average Coefficients for Different Aspect Ratio and Wing Root Offset
                                        The variations of the average lift and drag coefficients, ̅ and ̅ , and the power
                                       The variations of the average lift and drag coefficients, C L and C D , and the power
                                  factor,P ,, against
                                 factor,          against the
                                                            the different
                                                                   differentwing
                                                                               wingaspectaspectratios
                                                                                                   ratiosand
                                                                                                           androot
                                                                                                                 rootoffsets
                                                                                                                         offsetsforfor a constant
                                                                                                                                     a constant      radial
                                                                                                                                                   radial
                                             f
                                                                 ̂
                                 centroid location of r̂1 = 0.5 are shown in Figure 16. For all root offsets, increasing the aspectthe
                                  centroid      location    of       = 0.5  are   shown      in  Figure    16.  For   all  root  offsets,  increasing
                                  aspect
                                 ratio      ratio
                                        first        first increases
                                                increases   the average  thelift
                                                                               average      lift until
                                                                                  coefficient    coefficient    until after=which,
                                                                                                        AR = 4.5–6,             4.5–6, the
                                                                                                                                        after   which,liftthe
                                                                                                                                             average
                                  average      lift coefficient    starts to decrease       with  the  increase    of  aspect
                                 coefficient starts to decrease with the increase of aspect ratio. The average drag coefficient ratio. The   average   drag
                                  coefficient
                                 shows     similar shows    similarpeaks
                                                       trend and       trendatandAR = peaks     at root = 4.5
                                                                                          4.5 for        offsetsforR̂ =
                                                                                                                      root     The ̂
                                                                                                                            offsets
                                                                                                                          1–3.       only= 1–3.   The is
                                                                                                                                            exception  only
                                  exception
                                 the zero-wing    is the  zero-wing
                                                      root offset    case,root
                                                                           where offset
                                                                                     the case,    where
                                                                                           smallest   aspecttheratio
                                                                                                                 smallest     aspect
                                                                                                                       wing, AR        ratio
                                                                                                                                    = 1.5,     wing,
                                                                                                                                           shows    much =
                                  1.5, shows
                                 higher    averagemuch    higher
                                                        drag         average which
                                                               coefficients     drag coefficients       which with
                                                                                          decrease rapidly       decrease     rapidly with
                                                                                                                        the increase           the increase
                                                                                                                                        of aspect   ratio.
                                  of aspect
                                 Consequently,   ratio.  Consequently,
                                                      the power               the
                                                                     factor, Pf      power
                                                                                 , first       factor,with, first
                                                                                         increases                   increases
                                                                                                            aspect ratio     and with   aspect
                                                                                                                                  peaks at   AR =ratio  and
                                                                                                                                                    4.5–6
                                  peaks
                                 for all at
                                          wing root   = 4.5–6   forwith
                                                         offsets,    all the
                                                                         wing root
                                                                               zero-wing offsets,
                                                                                               rootwith
                                                                                                    offsetthe  zero-wing
                                                                                                            case  showingroot  moreoffset
                                                                                                                                      rapidcase   showing
                                                                                                                                              increase at
                                 the smaller
                                  more    rapidaspect      ratio
                                                    increase       range
                                                               at the      (AR =aspect
                                                                        smaller      1.5–4.5).ratio range (          = 1.5–4.5).




                                  Figure16.
                                 Figure   16.Average
                                              Averagelift
                                                       liftand
                                                            anddrag
                                                                 dragcoefficients
                                                                      coefficientsasaswell
                                                                                       wellasas aerodynamic
                                                                                              aerodynamic      efficiency
                                                                                                             efficiency   (measured
                                                                                                                        (measured  in in terms
                                                                                                                                      terms
                                  of the proposed  power    factor) variations against: (a)  aspect ratio for different wing root offsets,
                                 of the proposed power factor) variations against: (a) aspect ratio for different wing root offsets, and   and
                                  (b) wing root offset for different aspect ratios.
                                 (b) wing root offset for different aspect ratios.
Insects 2022, 13, 459                                                                                            23 of 26




                              For all aspect ratios, increasing the wing root offset decreases both the average lift and
                        drag coefficients, Figure 16b. The resulting efficiency variation shows very little change for
                        the aspect ratio range AR = 4.5–7.5; however, this does not mean that any wing root offset is
                        a good selection. This is because efficiency figures should always be judged in conjunction
                        with the lift production metrics. In this case, it is clear that increasing the wing root offset
                        has a negative effect on average lift, and therefore when considered with the efficiency
                        results, it becomes clear that having no or very little offset is probably the best choice. This
                        explains why most insects have evolved with no or little offset. However, caution should
                        be taken as insects also perform forward flights, but hovering is an important driver of
                        their evolution given that it is a very demanding flight mode from an efficiency point of
                        view.
                              The results shown here additionally highlight the need for better improvement to
                        both experimental rigs used to measure insect wing aerodynamics as well as robotic insects
                        as they usually possess a large offset. Such an offset can have a significant effect on the
                        measured aerodynamic characteristics, as shown here, to the extent that results cannot
                        be representative of a pure hovering mode anymore. Another interesting remark is that
                        the way the wing area is distributed from the centre of rotation has a major influence on
                        the resulting aerodynamics. This is clear when the results of changing the radial centroid
                        location are compared to those of changing the wing root offset. Both parameters change
                        the wing area distribution; however, their resulting effects on the aerodynamic behaviour
                        of flapping wings are distinct.

                        4. Conclusions
                              In this study, the effect of wing planform morphology on the aerodynamic performance
                        of representative insect wings is studied via numerical simulations. This is achieved by
                        solving the incompressible Navier-Stokes equations governing the flow at a Reynolds
                        number of 100. The wing planform shapes adopted in this study were defined using the
                        beta-function distribution which allows for wide representation of the different insect
                        wing shapes in nature. The planform shape parameters of aspect ratio, radial centroid
                        location, and wing root offset were systematically investigated for typical normal hovering
                        kinematic waveforms. The influence of the parameters on aerodynamic force coefficients,
                        aerodynamic efficiency, and flow structure evolution were identified.
                              For the aspect ratios investigated, AR = 1.5–7.5, the lowest aspect ratio of 1.5 showed
                        obvious peaks of lift coefficient near stroke reversals, which were less obvious/non-existing
                        for higher aspect ratios. However, the drag coefficient was also high at the same incidents,
                        resulting in significantly lower aerodynamic efficiency for AR = 1.5. Increasing aspect ratio
                        resulted in a faster increase of lift coefficient at the beginning of translational phase, likely
                        due to the fast growth of the LEV on the outboard wing. However, when the aspect ratio is
                        greater than 4.5, the LEV starts to detach from the wing at approximately 3.5–5 mean chord
                        lengths from the wing center of rotation, near the mid half-stroke, resulting in decreased
                        lift and drag coefficients within the later part of half-stroke.
                              The radial centroid location is found to mainly influence the LEV formation and
                        detachment time, due to the change in local chord length on the outboard wing: a small
                        centroid location results in faster development/detachment of the LEV due to the small
                        local chord length on the outboard wing, whereas a larger centroid location results in
                        delayed development/detachment of the LEV due to the larger local chord length on the
                        outboard wing. Consequently, for small aspect ratios, where the wing tip stall is relatively
                        weak, smaller centroid location results in higher lift coefficient at the beginning of the
                        half-stroke due to the faster growth of the LEV, whereas, for high aspect ratio wings, larger
                        centroid location results in higher lift coefficient at the beginning of the half-stroke due to
                        the delayed detachment of LEV.
                              Wing root offset is found to mainly influence the LEV detachment area. Increasing
                        root offset increases the LEV detachment area on the outboard wing after mid half-stroke.
Insects 2022, 13, 459                                                                                                             24 of 26




                                  This results in reduced lift and drag coefficients within the later half-stroke for all aspect
                                  ratios investigated.
                                       Finally, it is found that the intermediate aspect ratios between 4.5–6 result in the
                                  highest average lift coefficient for all radial centroid location and root offset cases. The
                                  optimum aerodynamic efficiency also lies within the same range for most cases; however,
                                  the optimum aspect ratio for efficiency is delayed to 7.5 for high centroid location cases.
                                  Increasing centroid location results in relatively small variations in lift coefficient, however,
                                  aerodynamic efficiency increases with the increase of centroid location. Increasing root
                                  offset is found to decrease both average lift and drag coefficients, but results in small
                                  variation in aerodynamic efficiency for high aspect ratio wings.
                                       Overall, our results show that very low aspect ratio of 1.5 is very inefficient aerody-
                                  namically, whereas high aspect ratio greater than 6 do not lead to a significantly higher
                                  aerodynamic performance and in fact are prone to tip stall. As such it seems that the
                                  intermediate aspect ratio range (AR = 3–6) provides the best compromise. On the other
                                  hand, radial centroid location and root offset show relatively less influence on aerodynamic
                                  performance when compared to aspect ratio; however, they act as tuners to the aerodynamic
                                  performance of insect wings.

                                  Author Contributions: Conceptualization, H.L. and M.R.A.N.; methodology, H.L. and M.R.A.N.;
                                  investigation, H.L. and M.R.A.N.; writing—original draft preparation, H.L.; writing—review and
                                  editing, M.R.A.N.; supervision, M.R.A.N.; project administration, M.R.A.N.; funding acquisition,
                                  M.R.A.N. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
                                  Funding: This research was funded by the Leverhulme Trust via Research Project Grant number
                                  RPG-2019-366.
                                  Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.
                                  Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.
                                  Data Availability Statement: The data presented in this study are available on request from the
                                  corresponding author.
                                  Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

References
1.    Ellington, C.P.; van den Berg, C.; Willmott, A.P.; Thomas, A.L.R. Leading-Edge Vortices in Insect Flight. Nature 1996, 384, 626–630.
      [CrossRef]
2.    Chin, D.D.; Lentink, D. Flapping Wing Aerodynamics: From Insects to Vertebrates. J. Exp. Biol. 2016, 219, 920–932. [CrossRef]
3.    Nabawy, M.R.A.; Crowther, W.J. The Role of the Leading Edge Vortex in Lift Augmentation of Steadily Revolving Wings: A
      Change in Perspective. J. R. Soc. Interface 2017, 14, 20170159. [CrossRef]
4.    Nabawy, M.R.A.; Villamor, G.J.; Li, H. Aerodynamic Modelling of Insect Wings Using Joukowski Transformation. In Proceedings
      of the AIAA AVIATION 2021 FORUM, Virtual, 2–6 August 2021; American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics: Reston,
      VA, USA, 2021; p. 2938.
5.    Dickinson, M.H.; Lehmann, F.O.; Sane, S.P. Wing Rotation and the Aerodynamic Basis of Insect Flight. Science 1999, 284, 1954–1960.
      [CrossRef] [PubMed]
6.    Ansari, S.A.; Zbikowski, R.; Knowles, K. Aerodynamic Modelling of Insect-like Flapping Flight for Micro Air Vehicles. Prog.
      Aerosp. Sci. 2006, 42, 129–172. [CrossRef]
7.    Maxworthy, T. Experiments on the Weis-Fogh Mechanism of Lift Generation by Insects in Hovering Flight. Part 1. Dynamics of
      the ‘Fling’. J. Fluid Mech. 1979, 93, 47–63. [CrossRef]
8.    Usherwood, J.R.; Ellington, C.P. The Aerodynamics of Revolving Wings—II. Propeller Force Coefficients from Mayfly to Quail. J.
      Exp. Biol. 2002, 205, 1565–1576. [CrossRef]
9.    Luo, G.; Sun, M. Effects of Corrugation and Wing Planform on the Aerodynamic Force Production of Sweeping Model Insect
      Wings. Acta Mech. Sin. Lixue Xuebao 2005, 21, 531–541. [CrossRef]
10.   Shahzad, A.; Tian, F.-B.; Young, J.; Lai, J.C.S. Effects of Wing Shape, Aspect Ratio and Deviation Angle on Aerodynamic
      Performance of Flapping Wings in Hover. Phys. Fluids 2016, 28, 111901. [CrossRef]
11.   Ellington, C.P. The Aerodynamics of Hovering Insect Flight. 2. Morphological Parameters. Philos. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. Ser. B Biol.
      Sci. 1984, 305, 17–40. [CrossRef]
12.   Ansari, S.A.; Kevin Knowles, B.; Zbikowski, R. Insectlike Flapping Wings in the Hover Part 2: Effect of Wing Geometry. J. Aircr.
      2008, 45, 1976–1990. [CrossRef]
Insects 2022, 13, 459                                                                                                               25 of 26




13.   Nabawy, M.R.A.; Crowther, W.J. A Quasi-Steady Lifting Line Theory for Insect-Like Hovering Flight. PLoS ONE 2015, 10,
      e0134972. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
14.   Nabawy, M.R.A.; Crowther, W.J. On the Quasi-Steady Aerodynamics of Normal Hovering Flight Part I: The Induced Power
      Factor. J. R. Soc. Interface 2014, 11, 20131196. [CrossRef]
15.   Nabawy, M.R.A.; Crowther, W.J. Is Flapping Flight Aerodynamically Efficient? In Proceedings of the 32nd AIAA Applied
      Aerodynamics Conference, Atlanta, GA, USA, 16–20 June 2014; American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics: Reston, VA,
      USA, 2014; p. 2277.
16.   Nabawy, M.R.A.; Crowther, W.J. Optimum Hovering Wing Planform. J. Theor. Biol. 2016, 406, 187–191. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
17.   Krishna, S.; Cho, M.; Wehmann, H.N.; Engels, T.; Lehmann, F.O. Wing Design in Flies: Properties and Aerodynamic Function.
      Insects 2020, 11, 466. [CrossRef]
18.   Prandtl, L.; Tragflügeltheorie, I. Mitteilung. Nachr. Ges. Wiss. Göttingen Math. -Phys. Kl. 1918, 1918, 451–477.
19.   Betz, A. Schraubenpropeller Mit Geringstem Energieverlust. Nachr. Ges. Wiss. Göttingen Math. -Phys. Kl. 1919, 1919, 193–217.
20.   Phillips, N.; Knowles, K.; Bomphrey, R.J. The Effect of Aspect Ratio on the Leading-Edge Vortex over an Insect-like Flapping
      Wing. Bioinspir. Biomim. 2015, 10, 056020. [CrossRef]
21.   Phillips, N.; Knowles, K.; Bomphrey, R.J. Petiolate Wings: Effects on the Leadingedge Vortex in Flapping Flight. Interface Focus
      2017, 7, 20160084. [CrossRef]
22.   Han, J.S.; Chang, J.W.; Cho, H.K. Vortices Behavior Depending on the Aspect Ratio of an Insect-like Flapping Wing in Hover. Exp.
      Fluids 2015, 56, 181. [CrossRef]
23.   Harbig, R.R.; Sheridan, J.; Thompson, M.C. Reynolds Number and Aspect Ratio Effects on the Leading-Edge Vortex for Rotating
      Insect Wing Planforms. J. Fluid Mech. 2013, 717, 166–192. [CrossRef]
24.   Kruyt, J.W.; van Heijst, G.J.F.; Altshuler, D.L.; Lentink, D. Power Reduction and the Radial Limit of Stall Delay in Revolving
      Wings of Different Aspect Ratio. J. R. Soc. Interface 2015, 12, 1–7. [CrossRef]
25.   Lentink, D.; Dickinson, M.H. Rotational Accelerations Stabilize Leading Edge Vortices on Revolving Fly Wings. J. Exp. Biol. 2009,
      212, 2705–2719. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
26.   Lee, Y.J.; Lua, K.B.; Lim, T.T. Aspect Ratio Effects on Revolving Wings with Rossby Number Consideration. Bioinspir. Biomim.
      2016, 11, 056013. [CrossRef]
27.   Jardin, T.; Colonius, T. On the Lift-Optimal Aspect Ratio of a Revolving Wing at Low Reynolds Number. J. R. Soc. Interface 2018,
      15, 20170933. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
28.   Bhat, S.S.; Zhao, J.; Sheridan, J.; Hourigan, K.; Thompson, M.C. Uncoupling the Effects of Aspect Ratio, Reynolds Number and
      Rossby Number on a Rotating Insect-Wing Planform. J. Fluid Mech. 2019, 859, 921–948. [CrossRef]
29.   Sun, M.; Tang, J. Unsteady Aerodynamic Force Generation by a Model Fruit Fly Wing in Flapping Motion. J. Exp. Biol. 2002, 205,
      55–70. [CrossRef]
30.   Nabawy, M.R.A.; Crowther, W.J. Aero-Optimum Hovering Kinematics. Bioinspir. Biomim. 2015, 10, 44002. [CrossRef]
31.   Ellington, C.P. The Aerodynamics of Hovering Insect Flight. 3. Kinematics. Philos. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. Ser. B Biol. Sci. 1984, 305,
      41–78. [CrossRef]
32.   Jones, A.R.; Babinsky, H. Reynolds Number Effects on Leading Edge Vortex Development on a Waving Wing. Exp. Fluids 2011, 51,
      197–210. [CrossRef]
33.   Wu, J.H.; Sun, M. Unsteady Aerodynamic Forces of a Flapping Wing. J. Exp. Biol. 2004, 207, 1137–1150. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
34.   Birch, J.M.; Dickson, W.B.; Dickinson, M.H. Force Production and Flow Structure of the Leading Edge Vortex on Flapping Wings
      at High and Low Reynolds Numbers. J. Exp. Biol. 2004, 207, 1063–1072. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
35.   Du, G.; Sun, M. Effects of Wing Deformation on Aerodynamic Forces in Hovering Hoverflies. J. Exp. Biol. 2010, 213, 2273–2283.
      [CrossRef] [PubMed]
36.   Nakata, T.; Liu, H. Aerodynamic Performance of a Hovering Hawkmoth with Flexible Wings: A Computational Approach. Proc.
      R. Soc. B Biol. Sci. 2012, 279, 722–731. [CrossRef]
37.   Zhao, L.; Huang, Q.; Deng, X.; Sane, S.P. Aerodynamic Effects of Flexibility in Flapping Wings. J. R. Soc. Interface 2010, 7, 485–497.
      [CrossRef]
38.   Patankar, S.V.; Spalding, D.B. A Calculation Procedure for Heat, Mass and Momentum Transfer in Three-Dimensional Parabolic
      Flows. Int. J. Heat Mass Transf. 1972, 15, 1787–1806. [CrossRef]
39.   Issa, R.I. Solution of the Implicitly Discretised Fluid Flow Equations by Operator-Splitting. J. Comput. Phys. 1986, 62, 40–65.
      [CrossRef]
40.   Mao, S.; Gang, D.U.; Sun, M.; Du, G. Lift and Power Requirements of Hovering Insect Flight. Acta Mech. Sin. 2003, 19, 458–469.
      [CrossRef]
41.   Wang, Z.J. Aerodynamic Efficiency of Flapping Flight: Analysis of a Two-Stroke Model. J. Exp. Biol. 2008, 211, 234–238. [CrossRef]
42.   Hunt, J.C.R.; Wray, A.A.; Moin, P. Eddies, Streams, and Convergence Zones in Turbulent Flows. In Proceedings of the 1988 Summer
      Program; Center for Turbulence Research: Stanford, CA, USA, 1988.
43.   Kweon, J.; Choi, H. Sectional Lift Coefficient of a Flapping Wing in Hovering Motion. Phys. Fluids 2010, 22, 071703. [CrossRef]
44.   Erzincanli, B.; Sahin, M. The Numerical Simulation of the Wing Kinematics Effects on near Wake Topology and Aerodynamic
      Performance in Hovering Drosophila Flight. Comput. Fluids 2015, 122, 90–110. [CrossRef]
Insects 2022, 13, 459                                                                                                       26 of 26




45.   Birch, J.M.; Dickinson, M.H. The Influence of Wing-Wake Interactions on the Production of Aerodynamic Forces in Flapping
      Flight. J. Exp. Biol. 2003, 206, 2257–2272. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
46.   Rival, D.E.; Kriegseis, J.; Schaub, P.; Widmann, A.; Tropea, C. Characteristic Length Scales for Vortex Detachment on Plunging
      Profiles with Varying Leading-Edge Geometry. Exp. Fluids 2014, 55, 1660. [CrossRef]
47.   Widmann, A.; Tropea, C. Parameters Influencing Vortex Growth and Detachment on Unsteady Aerodynamic Profiles. J. Fluid
      Mech. 2015, 773, 432–459. [CrossRef]
48.   Nabawy, M.R.A.; Marcinkeviciute, R. Scalability of Resonant Motor-Driven Flapping Wing Propulsion Systems. R. Soc. Open Sci.
      2021, 8, 210452. [CrossRef]
